Drug: abacavir_sulfate,_dolutegravir_sodium,_lamivudine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration of TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD with other drugs can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. ( 4 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Dolutegravir on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Agents In vitro, dolutegravir inhibited the renal organic cation transporters (OCT)2 (IC 50 = 1.93 microM) and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporter (MATE)1 (IC 50 = 6.34 microM). In vivo, dolutegravir inhibits tubular secretion of creatinine by inhibiting OCT2 and potentially MATE1. Dolutegravir may increase plasma concentrations of drugs eliminated via OCT2 or MATE1 (dofetilide, dalfampridine, and metformin) [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )] . In vitro, dolutegravir inhibited the basolateral renal transporters, organic anion transporter (OAT) 1 (IC 50 = 2.12 microM) and OAT3 (IC 50 = 1.97 microM). However, in vivo, dolutegravir did not alter the plasma concentrations of tenofovir or para-amino hippurate, substrates of OAT1 and OAT3. In vitro, dolutegravir did not inhibit (IC 50 >50 microM) the following: cytochrome P450 (CYP)1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A, uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT)1A1, UGT2B7, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), bile salt export pump (BSEP), organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP)1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, or multidrug resistance protein (MRP)2, or MRP4. In vitro, dolutegravir did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP3A4. Based on these data and the results of drug interaction trials, dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates of these enzymes or transporters. In drug interaction trials, dolutegravir did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the following drugs: tenofovir, methadone, midazolam, rilpivirine, and oral contraceptives containing norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol. Using cross-study comparisons to historical pharmacokinetic data for each interacting drug, dolutegravir did not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of the following drugs: atazanavir, darunavir, efavirenz, etravirine, fosamprenavir, lopinavir, ritonavir, and boceprevir. 7.2 Effect of Other Agents on the Pharmacokinetics of Dolutegravir Dolutegravir is metabolized by UGT1A1 with some contribution from CYP3A. Dolutegravir is also a substrate of UGT1A3, UGT1A9, BCRP, and P-gp in vitro. Drugs that induce those enzymes and transporters may decrease dolutegravir plasma concentrations and reduce the therapeutic effect of dolutegravir. Coadministration of dolutegravir and other drugs that inhibit these enzymes may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Etravirine significantly reduced plasma concentrations of dolutegravir, but the effect of etravirine was mitigated by coadministration of lopinavir/ritonavir or darunavir/ritonavir and is expected to be mitigated by atazanavir/ritonavir ( Table 6 ) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In vitro, dolutegravir was not a substrate of OATP1B1 or OATP1B3. Darunavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, rilpivirine, tenofovir, boceprevir, prednisone, rifabutin, and omeprazole had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions There were no drug-drug interaction trials conducted with the abacavir, dolutegravir, and lamivudine fixed-dose combination tablets. Information regarding potential drug interactions with the individual components of TRIUMEQ and TRIUMEQ PD are provided below. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse events or loss of efficacy. [See Contraindications ( 4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ).] Table 6. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions for Dolutegravir: Alterations in Dose May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials or Predicted Interactions a See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) Table 8 or Table 10 for magnitude of interaction. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment HIV-1 Antiviral Agents Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor: Etravirine a ↓Dolutegravir Use of TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD with etravirine without coadministration of atazanavir/ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, or lopinavir/ritonavir is not recommended. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor: Efavirenz a ↓Dolutegravir In adults and in pediatric patients weighing at least 25 kg , adjust dolutegravir dose to 50 mg twice daily. An additional 50-mg dose of TIVICAY should be taken, separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ. In pediatric patients weighing 6 to <25 kg , an additional weight-based dose of dolutegravir should be given separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ PD. • 6 to <10 kg: administer an additional 15-mg dose of dolutegravir (3 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 10 to <14 kg: administer an additional 20-mg dose of dolutegravir (4 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 14 to <20 kg: administer an additional 25-mg dose of dolutegravir (5 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 20 to <25 kg: administer an additional 30-mg dose of dolutegravir (6 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor: Nevirapine ↓Dolutegravir Avoid coadministration with TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD because there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations. Protease inhibitor: Fosamprenavir/ritonavir a Tipranavir/ritonavir a ↓Dolutegravir In adults and in pediatric patients weighing at least 25 kg , adjust dolutegravir dose to 50 mg twice daily. An additional TIVICAY 50-mg dose should be taken, separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ. In pediatric patients weighing 10 to <25 kg , an additional weight-based dose of dolutegravir should be given separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ PD. • 6 to <10 kg: administer an additional 15-mg dose of dolutegravir (3 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 10 to <14 kg: administer an additional 20-mg dose of dolutegravir (4 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 14 to <20 kg: administer an additional 25-mg dose of dolutegravir (5 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 20 to <25 kg: administer an additional 30-mg dose of dolutegravir (6 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. Other Agents Antiarrhythmic: Dofetilide ↑Dofetilide Coadministration is contraindicated with TRIUMEQ and TRIUMEQ PD [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Potassium channel blocker: Dalfampridine ↑Dalfampridine Elevated levels of dalfampridine increase the risk of seizures. The potential benefits of taking dalfampridine concurrently with TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD should be considered against the risk of seizures in these patients. Carbamazepine a ↓Dolutegravir In adults and in pediatric patients weighing at least 25 kg , adjust dolutegravir dose to 50 mg twice daily. An additional TIVICAY 50-mg dose should be taken, separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ. In pediatric patients weighing 6 to <25 kg , an additional weight-based dose of dolutegravir should be given separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ PD. • 6 to <10 kg: administer an additional 15-mg dose of dolutegravir (3 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 10 to <14 kg: administer an additional 20-mg dose of dolutegravir (4 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 14 to <20 kg: administer an additional 25-mg dose of dolutegravir (5 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 20 to <25 kg: administer an additional 30-mg dose of dolutegravir (6 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. Oxcarbazepine Phenytoin Phenobarbital St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) ↓Dolutegravir Avoid coadministration with TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD because there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations. Medications containing polyvalent cations (e.g., Mg or Al): Cation-containing antacids a or laxatives Sucralfate Buffered medications ↓Dolutegravir Administer TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking medications containing polyvalent cations. Oral calcium and iron supplements, including multivitamins containing calcium or iron a ↓Dolutegravir When taken with food, TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD and supplements or multivitamins containing calcium or iron can be taken at the same time. Under fasting conditions, TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD should be taken 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium or iron. Metformin a ↑Metformin Refer to the prescribing information for metformin for assessing the benefit and risk of concomitant use of TRIUMEQ or TRIUMEQ PD and metformin. Rifampin a ↓Dolutegravir In adults and in pediatric patients weighing at least 25 kg , adjust dolutegravir dose to 50 mg twice daily. An additional 50-mg dose of TIVICAY should be taken, separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ. In pediatric patients weighing 6 to <25 kg , an additional weight-based dose of dolutegravir should be given separated by 12 hours from TRIUMEQ PD. • 6 to <10 kg: administer an additional 15-mg dose of dolutegravir (3 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 10 to <14 kg: administer an additional 20-mg dose of dolutegravir (4 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 14 to <20 kg: administer an additional 25-mg dose of dolutegravir (5 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. • 20 to <25 kg: administer an additional 30-mg dose of dolutegravir (6 TIVICAY PD tablets for oral suspension), 12 hours after TRIUMEQ PD. Methadone Abacavir: In a trial of 11 HIV-1–infected subjects receiving methadone-maintenance therapy with 600 mg of abacavir twice daily (twice the currently recommended dose), oral methadone clearance increased [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . This alteration will not result in a methadone dose modification in the majority of patients; however, an increased methadone dose may be required in a small number of patients. Sorbitol Lamivudine: Coadministration of single doses of lamivudine and sorbitol resulted in a sorbitol dose-dependent reduction in lamivudine exposures. When possible, avoid use of sorbitol-containing medicines with lamivudine-containing medicines [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Riociguat Abacavir: Coadministration with TRIUMEQ resulted in increased riociguat exposure, which may increase the risk of riociguat adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The riociguat dose may need to be reduced. See full prescribing information for ADEMPAS (riociguat).
