Drug: abiraterone_acetate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers during Abiraterone Acetate treatment. If a strong CYP3A4 inducer must be co-administered, increase the Abiraterone Acetate dosing frequency ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) CYP2D6 Substrates: Avoid co-administration of Abiraterone Acetate with CYP2D6 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index. If an alternative treatment cannot be used, exercise caution and consider a dose reduction of the concomitant CYP2D6 substrate ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Abiraterone Acetate Strong CYP3A4 Inducers The co-administration of rifampin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, decreased exposure of abiraterone by 55%. Avoid concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers during Abiraterone Acetate treatment. If a strong CYP3A4 inducer must be co-administered with Abiraterone Acetate, increase the Abiraterone Acetate dosing frequency [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Effect of Abiraterone Acetate on Other Drugs CYP2D6 Substrates Abiraterone is an inhibitor of the hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes CYP2D6. The co-administration of Abiraterone Acetate with CYP2D6 substrates increases the concentration of the CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions of these substrates. Avoid co-administration of abiraterone acetate with substrates of CYP2D6 with a narrow therapeutic index. If alternative treatments cannot be used, consider a dose reduction of the concomitant CYP2D6 substrate drug in accordance with its Prescribing Information [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . CYP2C8 Substrates Abiraterone is an inhibitor of the hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes CYP2D6 and CYP2C8. The co-administration of Abiraterone Acetate with CYP2C8 substrates increases the concentration of the CYP2C8 substrate, which may increase the frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions of these substrates. Therefore, patients should be monitored closely for signs of toxicity related to a CYP2C8 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index if used concomitantly with abiraterone acetate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
