Drug: adagrasib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for clinically significant drug interactions with KRAZATI. ( 7 ) • Strong CYP3A4 Inducers : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use until adagrasib concentrations have reached steady state. ( 7.1 ) • Sensitive CYP3A4 Substrates : Avoid concomitant use with sensitive CYP3A4 substrates. ( 7.2 ) • Sensitive CYP2C9 or CYP2D6 Substrates or P-gp Substrates : Avoid concomitant use with sensitive CYP2C9 or CYP2D6 substrates or P-gp substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. ( 7.2 ) • Drugs That Prolong QT Interval : Avoid concomitant use with KRAZATI. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on KRAZATI Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid concomitant use of KRAZATI with strong CYP3A inducers. Adagrasib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of KRAZATI with a strong CYP3A inducer reduces adagrasib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the effectiveness of KRAZATI. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use of KRAZATI with strong CYP3A inhibitors until adagrasib concentrations have reached steady state (after approximately 8 days). Adagrasib is a CYP3A4 substrate. If adagrasib concentrations have not reached steady state, concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor will increase adagrasib concentrations, [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which may increase the risk of KRAZATI adverse reactions. 7.2 Effects of KRAZATI on Other Drugs Sensitive CYP3A Substrates Avoid concomitant use of KRAZATI with sensitive CYP3A substrates unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for these substrates. Adagrasib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with KRAZATI increases exposure of CYP3A substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Sensitive CYP2C9 Substrates Avoid concomitant use of KRAZATI with sensitive CYP2C9 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for these substrates. Adagrasib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with KRAZATI increases exposure of CYP2C9 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Sensitive CYP2D6 Substrates Avoid concomitant use of KRAZATI with sensitive CYP2D6 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for these substrates. Adagrasib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with KRAZATI increases exposure of CYP2D6 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. P-gp Substrates Avoid concomitant use of KRAZATI with P-gp substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for these substrates. Adagrasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with KRAZATI increases exposure of P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. 7.3 Drugs That Prolong QTc Interval Avoid concomitant use of KRAZATI with other product(s) with a known potential to prolong the QTc interval. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor electrocardiogram and electrolytes prior to starting KRAZATI, during concomitant use, and as clinically indicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Withhold KRAZATI if the QTc interval is > 500 ms or the change from baseline is > 60 ms [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Adagrasib causes QTc interval prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Concomitant use of KRAZATI with other products that prolong the QTc interval may result in a greater increase in the QTc interval and adverse reactions associated with QTc interval prolongation, including Torsade de pointes, other serious arrythmias, and sudden death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ].
