Drug: adalimumab-fkjp

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Abatacept: Increased risk of serious infection. ( 5.1 , 5.11 , 7.2 ) • Anakinra: Increased risk of serious infection. ( 5.1 , 5.7 , 7.2 ) • Live vaccines: Avoid use with Adalimumab-fkjp. ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) *Biosimilar means that the biological product is approved based on data demonstrating that it is highly similar to an FDA-approved biological product, known as a reference product, and that there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar product and the reference product. Biosimilarity of ADALIMUMAB-FKJP has been demonstrated for the condition(s) of use (e.g. indication(s), dosing regimen(s)), strength(s), dosage form(s), and route(s) of administration described in its Full Prescribing Information. 7.1 Methotrexate Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients taking concomitant methotrexate (MTX). Although MTX reduced the apparent adalimumab clearance, the data do not suggest the need for dose adjustment of either Adalimumab-fkjp or MTX [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Biological Products In clinical studies in patients with RA, an increased risk of serious infections has been observed with the combination of TNF blockers with anakinra or abatacept, with no added benefit; therefore, use of Adalimumab-fkjp with abatacept or anakinra is not recommended in patients with RA [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.11) ] . A higher rate of serious infections has also been observed in patients with RA treated with rituximab who received subsequent treatment with a TNF blocker. There is insufficient information regarding the concomitant use of Adalimumab-fkjp and other biologic products for the treatment of RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV. Concomitant administration of Adalimumab-fkjp with other biologic DMARDS (e.g., anakinra and abatacept) or other TNF blockers is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. 7.3 Live Vaccines Avoid the use of live vaccines with Adalimumab-fkjp [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.4 Cytochrome P450 Substrates The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by increased concentrations of cytokines (e.g., TNFα, IL-6) during chronic inflammation. It is possible for products that antagonize cytokine activity, such as adalimumab products, to influence the formation of CYP450 enzymes. Upon initiation or discontinuation of Adalimumab-fkjp in patients being treated with CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, monitoring of the effect (e.g., warfarin) or drug concentration (e.g., cyclosporine or theophylline) is recommended and the individual dose of the drug product may be adjusted as needed.
