Drug: aficamten

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that inhibit multiple pathways of MYQORZO elimination, strong CYP2C9 inhibitors, or moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers may increase risk of heart failure. MYQORZO dose reduction and additional monitoring may be required when initiating or discontinuing these drugs. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) 7.1. Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Plasma Concentrations of MYQORZO Aficamten is primarily metabolized by CYP2C9 and, to a lesser extent by CYP3A, CYP2D6, and CYP2C19. Concomitant administration of drugs that inhibit multiple P450 pathways of aficamten elimination, strong inhibitors of CYP2C9, and moderate-to-strong inducers of CYP3A, may affect the exposure of aficamten [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] (see Table 2 ). Table 2: Established and Potentially Significant Pharmacokinetic Drug-Drug Interactions with MYQORZO Inhibitors of Multiple CYPs Fluvoxamine Clinical Impact Fluvoxamine is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor, weak to moderate CYP3A inhibitor, weak CYP2C9 inhibitor, and weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration of fluvoxamine is predicted to increase aficamten exposure, which may increase the risk of developing heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Prevention or Management Initiate MYQORZO at 5 mg in patients on stable therapy with fluvoxamine. In patients who are on MYQORZO treatment and intend to initiate fluvoxamine: Reduce dose of MYQORZO (i.e., 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, or 10 mg to 5 mg) or continue 5 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Fluconazole or Voriconazole Clinical Impact Fluconazole is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor, moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and strong CYP2C19 inhibitor. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor, and weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration with fluconazole is observed, and voriconazole is predicted, to increase aficamten exposure, which may increase the risk of developing heart failure due to systolic dysfunction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Initiate MYQORZO at 5 mg in patients on stable therapy with fluconazole or voriconazole. In patients currently receiving MYQORZO who intend to initiate fluconazole (if used more than 3 days) or voriconazole: Reduce dose of MYQORZO to 5 mg if they are currently receiving MYQORZO 15 mg or 20 mg. Avoid concomitant use if currently receiving MYQORZO 5 mg or 10 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Strong CYP2C9 inhibitors Clinical Impact Coadministration with a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor is predicted to increase the exposure of aficamten, which may increase the risk of developing heart failure due to systolic dysfunction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Initiate MYQORZO at 5 mg in patients who are on stable therapy with a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor. In patients who are on MYQORZO treatment and intend to initiate a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor: Reduce dose of MYQORZO (i.e., 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, or 10 mg to 5 mg) or continue 5 mg [see Dosage and administration (2.3) ]. CYP Inducers Rifampin Clinical Impact Rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer, strong CYP2C19 inducer, and moderate CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration of rifampin decreases aficamten exposure, which may reduce the effectiveness of MYQORZO [see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention of Management Concomitant use with rifampin is contraindicated. Other moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers Clinical Impact Concomitant use with a moderate to strong CYP3A inducer decreases aficamten exposure, which may reduce MYQORZO effectiveness [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The risk of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction may increase with discontinuation of these inducers. Prevention or Management In patients who intend to discontinue a moderate to strong CYP3A Inducer: Reduce dose of MYQORZO (20 mg to 10 mg; 15 mg to 5 mg; 10 mg to 5 mg) or continue 5 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ].
