Drug: albuterol_sulfate_and_budesonide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with AIRSUPRA. • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir): Use with caution. May cause systemic corticosteroid effects. ( 7.1 ) • Other short-acting bronchodilators: Use judiciously with other short-acting beta agonists. ( 7.2 ) • Beta blockers: May decrease effectiveness of AIRSUPRA and produce severe bronchospasm. When there are no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic-blocking agents, consider cardioselective beta-blockers and use with caution. ( 7.3 ) • Diuretics, or non-potassium-sparing diuretics: May potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes. Consider monitoring potassium levels with concomitant use. ( 7.4 ) • Digoxin: May decrease serum digoxin levels. Carefully evaluate digoxin levels with concomitant use. ( 7.5 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) and tricyclic antidepressants: Use AIRSUPRA with extreme caution with concomitant use. ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 The main route of metabolism of corticosteroids, including budesonide, a component of AIRSUPRA, is via cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4). After oral administration of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, the mean plasma concentration of orally administered budesonide increased. Concomitant administration of a CYP3A4 inhibitor may inhibit the metabolism of, and increase the systemic exposure to, budesonide. Caution should be exercised when considering the co-administration of AIRSUPRA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . 7.2 Use with Other Short-Acting Bronchodilators AIRSUPRA contains the short-acting beta-agonist, albuterol. Therefore, concomitant use of additional beta-agonists with AIRSUPRA should be used judiciously to prevent beta-agonist overdose. 7.3 Beta-Blockers Beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as albuterol, a component of AIRSUPRA, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma. Therefore, patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, e.g., as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic-blocking agents in these patients. In this setting, consider cardioselective beta-blockers, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of non-potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of AIRSUPRA with non-potassium-sparing diuretics. Consider monitoring potassium levels. 7.5 Digoxin Mean decreases of 16% and 22% in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single-dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol, respectively, to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days. The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear. Nevertheless, it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and AIRSUPRA. 7.6 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants AIRSUPRA should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
