Drug: allopurinol_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Clinically important interactions with the drugs listed below were observed in patients undergoing treatment with an oral allopurinol formulation. Capecitabine: Avoid the concomitant use of allopurinol ( 7.2 ). Pegloticase: Discontinue and do not institute allopurinol therapy during treatment with pegloticase ( 7.2 ). Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine: Reduce mercaptopurine or azathioprine dose as recommended in the respective prescribing information ( 7.2 ). See full prescribing information for complete list of significant drug interactions ( 7 ). 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect the Occurrence of Skin Rash and Hypersensitivity Concomitant use of the following drugs may increase the risk of skin rash, which may be severe: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. Renal impairment may further increase risk with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Monitor renal function and reduce the dose of Allopurinol Sodium for Injection in patients with concomitant thiazide diuretic use and impaired renal function [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Discontinue Allopurinol Sodium for Injection at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity reaction when use concomitantly with these drugs. 7.2 Other Drugs Known to Have Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Sodium for Injection Table 4: Interventions for Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Sodium for Injection Capecitabine Clinical Impact Concomitant use with allopurinol may decrease concentration of capecitabine’s active metabolites, which may decrease capecitabine efficacy. Intervention Avoid the use of Allopurinol Sodium for Injection during treatment with capecitabine. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol increases cyclosporine concentrations which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Intervention Increase frequency of monitoring cyclosporine concentrations as reflected in the prescribing information when used concomitantly with Allopurinol Sodium for Injection. Cytotoxic Agents Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol with cytotoxic agents increases bone marrow suppression among patients with neoplastic disease, except leukemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention Blood count monitoring and regular physician follow-up recommended. Fluorouracil Clinical Impact Based on non-clinical data, allopurinol may decrease anti-tumor activity due to suppression of phosphorylation of 5-fluorouracil. Intervention Concomitant administration with fluorouracil should be avoided. Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine Clinical Impact Allopurinol inhibits xanthine oxidase mediated metabolism of mercaptopurine and azathioprine. Concomitant use of allopurinol increases the exposure of either mercaptopurine or azathioprine which may increase the risk of their adverse reactions including myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Intervention Reduce the dosage of mercaptopurine or azathioprine as recommended in the respective prescribing information. Pegloticase Clinical Impact Concomitant use of Allopurinol Sodium for Injection and pegloticase may potentially blunt the rise of serum uric acid levels and increase the risk of pegloticase related anaphylaxis in patients whose uric acid level increase to above 6 mg/dL. Intervention Discontinue and do not institute Allopurinol Sodium for Injection therapy during treatment with pegloticase. Theophylline Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol doses greater than or equal to 600 mg/day may decrease the clearance of theophylline. Intervention Monitor and adjust theophylline doses as reflected in the prescribing information. Uricosuric Agents Clinical Impact Uricosuric agents increase the excretion of the active allopurinol metabolite oxypurinol. Concomitant use with uricosuric agents decreases oxypurinol exposure which may reduce the inhibition of xanthine oxidase by oxypurinol and increases the urinary excretion of uric acid. Intervention Monitor uric acid levels due to the increased chance of hypouricemic effects. Warfarin Clinical Impact Allopurinol may inhibit the metabolism of warfarin, possibly enhancing its anticoagulant effect. Intervention Patients on concomitant therapy should be monitored for excessive anticoagulation. The INR should be checked frequently and warfarin dosage adjusted accordingly when allopurinol is added to warfarin therapy.
