Drug: allopurinol

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drugs may increase the risk of serious skin reactions: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. ( 7.1 ) Capecitabine: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine: Reduce mercaptopurine or azathioprine dose as recommended in the respective prescribing information. ( 7.2 ) Pegloticase: Discontinue and refrain from initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets. ( 7.2 ) See FPI for complete list of significant drug interactions. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect the Occurrence of Skin Rash and Hypersensitivity Concomitant use of the following drugs may increase the risk of skin rash, which may be severe: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. Renal impairment may further increase risk with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Monitor kidney function and reduce the dose of allopurinol in patients with concomitant thiazide diuretic use and impaired renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity reaction when use concomitantly with these drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 7.2 Drugs Known to Have Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Table 3: Interventions for Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Capecitabine Clinical Impact Concomitant use with allopurinol may decrease concentration of capecitabine’s active metabolites, which may decrease capecitabine efficacy. Intervention Avoid the use of allopurinol during treatment with capecitabine Chlorpropamide Clinical Impact Allopurinol prolongs the half-life of chlorpropamide as both compete for renal tubular excretion. In patients with renal insufficiency, the risk of hypoglycemia may be increased due to this mechanism. Intervention Monitor patients with renal insufficiency for hypoglycemia when administering chlorpropamide and allopurinol concomitantly. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol increases cyclosporine concentrations, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Intervention Increase frequency of monitoring cyclosporine concentrations as reflected in its prescribing information and modify the dosage of cyclosporine as appropriate when used concomitantly with allopurinol. Cyclophosphamide and Other Cytotoxic Agents Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol with cyclophosphamide and other cytotoxic agents (doxorubicin, bleomycin, procarbazine, mechloroethamine) increases bone marrow suppression among patients with neoplastic disease, except leukemia. Intervention Blood count monitoring and regular physician follow-up are recommended. Dicumarol Clinical Impact Allopurinol prolongs the half-life of the anticoagulant, dicumarol. The mechanism of this drug interaction has not been established but should be noted when allopurinol is given to patients already on dicumarol therapy. Intervention Monitor prothrombin time. Adjust the dosage of dicumarol accordingly when allopurinol is added to anticoagulant therapy. Fluorouracil Clinical Impact Based on non-clinical data, allopurinol may decrease anti-tumor activity due to suppression of phosphorylation of 5-fluorouracil. Intervention Concomitant administration with fluorouracil should be avoided. Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine Clinical Impact Allopurinol inhibits xanthine oxidase mediated metabolism of mercaptopurine and azathioprine. Concomitant use of allopurinol increases the exposure of either mercaptopurine or azathioprine which may increase the risk of their adverse reactions, including myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions 5.5 ]. Intervention In patients receiving mercaptopurine or azathioprine, the concomitant administration of 300 mg to 600 mg of allopurinol per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one third to one fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. Subsequent adjustment of doses of mercaptopurine or azathioprine should be made on the basis of therapeutic response and the appearance of toxic effects. Pegloticase Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol and pegloticase may potentially blunt the rise of serum uric acid levels and increase the risk of pegloticase related anaphylaxis in patients whose uric acid level increase to above 6 mg/dL. Intervention Discontinue and do not institute allopurinol therapy during treatment with pegloticase. Theophylline Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol doses greater than or equal to 600 mg/day may decrease the clearance of theophylline Intervention Monitor and adjust theophylline doses as reflected in the prescribing information. Uricosuric Drugs Clinical Impact Uricosuric agents increase the excretion of the active allopurinol metabolite oxypurinol. Concomitant use with uricosuric agents decreases oxypurinol exposure which may reduce the inhibition of xanthine oxidase by oxypurinol and increases the urinary excretion of uric acid. The net effect of such combined therapy may be useful in some patients in achieving minimum serum uric acid levels provided the total urinary uric acid load does not exceed the competence of the patient's kidney function. Intervention Monitor uric acid levels due to the increased chance of hypouricemic effects. Warfarin Clinical Impact Allopurinol may inhibit the metabolism of warfarin, possibly enhancing its anticoagulant effect. Intervention Monitor patients on concomitant therapy for excessive anticoagulation. Assess INR frequently and adjust warfarin dosage accordingly when allopurinol is added to warfarin therapy.
