Drug: alogliptin_benzoate_and_pioglitazone_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. Limit the pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily. ( 7.2 ) CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.3 ) Topiramate may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Insulin Secretagogues and Insulin Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia. Coadministration of alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may require lower dosages of the insulin secretagogue and insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 7.2 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the concentration-time curve [AUC]) and half-life of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dosage of alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets is 25 mg of alogliptin and 15 mg of pioglitazone once daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 CYP2C8 Inducers An inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may significantly decrease the exposure (AUC) of pioglitazone. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets (25 mg of alogliptin and 45 mg of pioglitazone) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Topiramate A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with concomitant administration of pioglitazone and topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The clinical relevance of this decrease is unknown; however, when alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets and topiramate are used concomitantly, monitor patients for adequate glycemic control.
