Drug: amphetamine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Acidifying and Alkalinizing Agents: Agents that alter urinary pH can alter blood levels of amphetamine. Acidifying agents can decrease amphetamine blood levels, while alkalinizing agents can increase amphetamine blood levels. Adjust DYANAVEL XR dosage accordingly ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Amphetamines Table 2. Drugs having clinically important interactions with amphetamines. MAO Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact MAOI antidepressants slow amphetamine metabolism, increasing amphetamines effect on the release of norepinephrine and other monoamines from adrenergic nerve endings causing headaches and other signs of hypertensive crisis. Toxic neurological effects and malignant hyperpyrexia can occur, sometimes with fatal results. Intervention Do not administer DYANAVEL XR concomitantly or within 14 days following administration of MAOI [ see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of DYANAVEL XR and serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during DYANAVEL XR initiation or dosage increase. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue DYANAVEL XR and the concomitant serotonergic drug(s) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ] . CYP2D6 Inhibitors Clinical Impact The concomitant use of DYANAVEL XR and CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase the exposure of DYANAVEL XR compared to the use of the drug alone and increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome particularly during DYANAVEL XR initiation and after a dosage increase. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue DYANAVEL XR and the CYP2D6 inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , Overdosage (10) ] . Alkalinizing Agents (Urinary and Gastrointestinal) Clinical Impact Increase blood levels and potentiate the action of amphetamine. Intervention Co-administration of DYANAVEL XR and gastrointestinal or urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided. Acidifying Agents (Urinary and Gastrointestinal) Clinical Impact Lower blood levels and efficacy of amphetamines. Intervention Increase dose based on clinical response. Tricyclic Antidepressants Clinical Impact May enhance the activity of tricyclic or sympathomimetic agents causing striking and sustained increases in the concentration of d- amphetamine in the brain; cardiovascular effects can be potentiated. Intervention Monitor frequently and adjust or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. 7.2 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Amphetamines can cause a significant elevation in plasma corticosteroid levels. This increase is greatest in the evening. Amphetamines may interfere with urinary steroid determinations.
