Drug: aripiprazole_lauroxil

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with ARISTADA Table 10: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with ARISTADA Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP2D6 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of oral aripiprazole with strong CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of oral aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: With concomitant use of ARISTADA with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor for more than 2 weeks, reduce the ARISTADA dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Examples: itraconazole, clarithromycin, quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of oral aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of oral aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: With concomitant use of ARISTADA with a strong CYP3A4 inducer for more than 2 weeks consider increasing the ARISTADA dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Examples: carbamazepine, rifampin Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact: Due to its alpha adrenergic antagonism, aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive agents. Intervention: Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Examples: carvedilol, lisinopril, prazosin Benzodiazepines Clinical Impact: The intensity of sedation was greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam as compared to that observed with aripiprazole alone. The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Intervention: Monitor sedation and blood pressure. Adjust dose accordingly. Example: lorazepam 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with ARISTADA Based on pharmacokinetic studies with oral aripiprazole, no dosage adjustment of ARISTADA is required when administered concomitantly with famotidine, valproate, or lithium [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In addition, no dosage adjustment is necessary for substrates of CYP2D6 (e.g., dextromethorphan, fluoxetine, paroxetine, or venlafaxine), CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin), CYP2C19 (e.g., omeprazole, warfarin, escitalopram), or CYP3A4 (e.g., dextromethorphan) when co-administered with ARISTADA. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lithium, lamotrigine, or sertraline when co-administered with ARISTADA [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
