Drug: armodafinil

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effects of Armodafinil on CYP3A4/5 Substrates The clearance of drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4/5 (e.g., steroidal contraceptives, cyclosporine, midazolam, and triazolam) may be increased by armodafinil via induction of metabolic enzymes, which results in lower systemic exposure. Dosage adjustment of these drugs should be considered when these drugs are used concomitantly with armodafinil [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The effectiveness of steroidal contraceptives may be reduced when used with armodafinil and for one month after discontinuation of therapy. Alternative or concomitant methods of contraception are recommended for patients taking steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) when treated concomitantly with armodafinil and for one month after discontinuation of armodafinil treatment. Blood levels of cyclosporine may be reduced when used with armodafinil. Monitoring of circulating cyclosporine concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustment for cyclosporine should be considered when used concomitantly with armodafinil. Effects of Armodafinil on CYP2C19 Substrates Elimination of drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 (e.g., phenytoin, diazepam, propranolol, omeprazole, and clomipramine) may be prolonged by armodafinil via inhibition of metabolic enzymes, with resultant higher systemic exposure. Dose reduction of these drugs may be required when these drugs are used concomitantly with armodafinil. Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever armodafinil is coadministered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Caution should be used when concomitantly administering MAO inhibitors and armodafinil. Steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol): use alternative or concomitant methods of contraception while taking armodafinil tablets and for one month after discontinuation of armodafinil treatment. ( 7 ) Cyclosporine: blood concentrations of cyclosporine may be reduced. ( 7 ) CYP2C19 substrates, such as omeprazole, phenytoin, and diazepam: exposure of these medications may be increased. ( 7 )
