Drug: asciminib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Closely monitor for adverse reactions during concomitant use of SCEMBLIX at 200 mg twice daily. ( 7.1 ) Itraconazole Oral Solution Containing Hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin: Avoid concomitant use of SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses. ( 7.1 ) Certain Substrates of CYP3A4: Closely monitor for adverse reactions during concomitant use of SCEMBLIX at 80 mg total daily dose. Avoid use of SCEMBLIX at 200 mg twice daily. ( 7.2 ) Substrates of CYP2C9: Avoid concomitant use of SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses. 80 mg total daily dose: If unavoidable, reduce the CYP2C9 substrate dosage as necessary. ( 7.2 ) 200 mg twice daily: If unavoidable, consider alternative therapy with non-CYP2C9 substrate. ( 7.2 ) Certain P-gp Substrates: Closely monitor for adverse reactions during concomitant use of SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses. ( 7.2 ) Substrates of BCRP: Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin at all recommended doses. Closely monitor for adverse reactions of other BCRP substrates during concomitant use of SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on SCEMBLIX Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Asciminib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of SCEMBLIX with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases both the asciminib C max and AUC, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Closely monitor for adverse reactions in patients treated with SCEMBLIX at 200 mg twice daily with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Itraconazole Oral Solution Containing Hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin Concomitant use of SCEMBLIX with itraconazole oral solution containing hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin decreases asciminib C max and AUC, which may reduce SCEMBLIX efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Avoid coadministration of SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses with itraconazole oral solution containing hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant use of SCEMBLIX with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreases both the asciminib C max and AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.2 Effect of SCEMBLIX on Other Drugs Certain CYP3A4 Substrates Asciminib is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use of SCEMBLIX increases the C max and AUC of CYP3A4 substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Closely monitor for adverse reactions in patients treated with SCEMBLIX at 80 mg total daily dose with concomitant use of certain CYP3A4 substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Avoid coadministration of SCEMBLIX at 200 mg twice daily with certain CYP3A4 substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. CYP2C9 Substrates Asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use of SCEMBLIX increases the C max and AUC of CYP2C9 substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Avoid coadministration of SCEMBLIX at 80 mg total daily dose with certain CYP2C9 substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the CYP2C9 substrate dosage as recommended in its prescribing information. Avoid coadministration of SCEMBLIX at 200 mg twice daily with sensitive CYP2C9 substrates and certain CYP2C9 substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, consider alternative therapy with a non-CYP2C9 substrate. Certain P-gp Substrates Asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use of SCEMBLIX increases the plasma concentrations of P-gp substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Closely monitor for adverse reactions in patients treated with SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses with concomitant use of P-gp substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities. Substrates of BCRP Asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use of SCEMBLIX may increase the plasma concentration of BCRP substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with these substrates. Avoid coadministration of SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses with rosuvastatin. Closely monitor for adverse reactions in patients treated with SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses with concomitant use of other BCRP substrates. Reduce the dosage of the other BCRP substrates as recommended in their Prescribing Information when used concomitantly with SCEMBLIX at all recommended doses.
