Drug: ascorbic_acid

=== Drug Interactions ===
7. DRUG INTERACTIONS ​Antibiotics:​ Ascorbic acid may decrease the activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated ​in vitro ​by ascorbic acid (7.1). ​Amphetamine and Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification:​ Ascorbic acid may cause acidification of the urine and result in decreased amphetamine serum levels affect excretion and plasma concentrations of other drugs sensitive to urine pH (7.2). ​Warfarin:​ Continue standard monitoring (7.3) ​ See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ​Antibiotics: ​ Ascorbic acid may decrease the activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated ​in vitro ​by ascorbic acid (7.1) . ​Amphetamine and Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification: ​ Ascorbic acid may cause acidification of the urine and result in decreased amphetamine serum levels affect excretion and plasma concentrations of other drugs sensitive to urine pH (7.2) . ​Warfarin: ​ Continue standard monitoring (7.3) ​ See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 7.1 Antibiotics 7.1 Antibiotics Ascorbic acid may decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid. If the antibiotic efficacy is suspected to be decreased by concomitant administration of ASCOR, discontinue ASCOR administration. 7.1 Antibiotics Ascorbic acid may decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid. If the antibiotic efficacy is suspected to be decreased by concomitant administration of ASCOR, discontinue ASCOR administration. 7.2 Amphetamine & Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification 7.2 Amphetamine & Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification Ascorbic acid may acidify the urine and lower serum concentrations of amphetamine by increasing renal excretion (as reflected by changes in amphetamine urine recovery rates). In case of decreased amphetamine efficacy discontinue ASCOR administration. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted. In addition, acidification of urine by ascorbic acid will alter the excretion of certain drugs affected by the pH of the urine (e.g., fluphenazine) when administered concurrently. It has been reported that concurrent administration of ascorbic acid and fluphenazine has resulted in decreased fluphenazine plasma concentrations. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted. 7.2 Amphetamine & Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification Ascorbic acid may acidify the urine and lower serum concentrations of amphetamine by increasing renal excretion (as reflected by changes in amphetamine urine recovery rates). In case of decreased amphetamine efficacy discontinue ASCOR administration. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted. In addition, acidification of urine by ascorbic acid will alter the excretion of certain drugs affected by the pH of the urine (e.g., fluphenazine) when administered concurrently. It has been reported that concurrent administration of ascorbic acid and fluphenazine has resulted in decreased fluphenazine plasma concentrations. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted. 7.3 Warfarin 7.3 Warfarin Limited case reports have suggested interference of ascorbic acid with the anticoagulation effects of warfarin, however, patients on warfarin therapy treated with ascorbic acid doses up to 1000 mg/day (5 times the largest recommended single dose) for 2 weeks (twice the maximum recommended duration), no effect was observed. Standard monitoring for anti-coagulation therapy should continue during ascorbic acid treatment, as per standard of care. 7.3 Warfarin Limited case reports have suggested interference of ascorbic acid with the anticoagulation effects of warfarin, however, patients on warfarin therapy treated with ascorbic acid doses up to 1000 mg/day (5 times the largest recommended single dose) for 2 weeks (twice the maximum recommended duration), no effect was observed. Standard monitoring for anti-coagulation therapy should continue during ascorbic acid treatment, as per standard of care. 7.4 Laboratory Test Interference 7.4 Laboratory Test Interference Because ascorbic acid is a strong reducing agent, it can interfere with numerous laboratory tests based on oxidation-reduction reactions (e.g., glucose, nitrite and bilirubin levels, leukocyte count, etc.). Chemical detecting methods based on colorimetric reactions are generally those tests affected. Ascorbic acid may lead to inaccurate results (false negatives) obtained for checking blood or urinary glucose levels, nitrite, bilirubin, and leukocytes if tested during or within 24 hours after infusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.4 Laboratory Test Interference Because ascorbic acid is a strong reducing agent, it can interfere with numerous laboratory tests based on oxidation-reduction reactions (e.g., glucose, nitrite and bilirubin levels, leukocyte count, etc.). Chemical detecting methods based on colorimetric reactions are generally those tests affected. Ascorbic acid may lead to inaccurate results (false negatives) obtained for checking blood or urinary glucose levels, nitrite, bilirubin, and leukocytes if tested during or within 24 hours after infusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] .
7.1 Antibiotics 7.1 Antibiotics Ascorbic acid may decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid. If the antibiotic efficacy is suspected to be decreased by concomitant administration of ASCOR, discontinue ASCOR administration. 7.1 Antibiotics Ascorbic acid may decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid. If the antibiotic efficacy is suspected to be decreased by concomitant administration of ASCOR, discontinue ASCOR administration.
7.2 Amphetamine & Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification 7.2 Amphetamine & Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification Ascorbic acid may acidify the urine and lower serum concentrations of amphetamine by increasing renal excretion (as reflected by changes in amphetamine urine recovery rates). In case of decreased amphetamine efficacy discontinue ASCOR administration. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted. In addition, acidification of urine by ascorbic acid will alter the excretion of certain drugs affected by the pH of the urine (e.g., fluphenazine) when administered concurrently. It has been reported that concurrent administration of ascorbic acid and fluphenazine has resulted in decreased fluphenazine plasma concentrations. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted. 7.2 Amphetamine & Other Drugs Affected by Urine Acidification Ascorbic acid may acidify the urine and lower serum concentrations of amphetamine by increasing renal excretion (as reflected by changes in amphetamine urine recovery rates). In case of decreased amphetamine efficacy discontinue ASCOR administration. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted. In addition, acidification of urine by ascorbic acid will alter the excretion of certain drugs affected by the pH of the urine (e.g., fluphenazine) when administered concurrently. It has been reported that concurrent administration of ascorbic acid and fluphenazine has resulted in decreased fluphenazine plasma concentrations. Standard monitoring of therapy is warranted.
7.3 Warfarin 7.3 Warfarin Limited case reports have suggested interference of ascorbic acid with the anticoagulation effects of warfarin, however, patients on warfarin therapy treated with ascorbic acid doses up to 1000 mg/day (5 times the largest recommended single dose) for 2 weeks (twice the maximum recommended duration), no effect was observed. Standard monitoring for anti-coagulation therapy should continue during ascorbic acid treatment, as per standard of care. 7.3 Warfarin Limited case reports have suggested interference of ascorbic acid with the anticoagulation effects of warfarin, however, patients on warfarin therapy treated with ascorbic acid doses up to 1000 mg/day (5 times the largest recommended single dose) for 2 weeks (twice the maximum recommended duration), no effect was observed. Standard monitoring for anti-coagulation therapy should continue during ascorbic acid treatment, as per standard of care.
7.4 Laboratory Test Interference 7.4 Laboratory Test Interference Because ascorbic acid is a strong reducing agent, it can interfere with numerous laboratory tests based on oxidation-reduction reactions (e.g., glucose, nitrite and bilirubin levels, leukocyte count, etc.). Chemical detecting methods based on colorimetric reactions are generally those tests affected. Ascorbic acid may lead to inaccurate results (false negatives) obtained for checking blood or urinary glucose levels, nitrite, bilirubin, and leukocytes if tested during or within 24 hours after infusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.4 Laboratory Test Interference Because ascorbic acid is a strong reducing agent, it can interfere with numerous laboratory tests based on oxidation-reduction reactions (e.g., glucose, nitrite and bilirubin levels, leukocyte count, etc.). Chemical detecting methods based on colorimetric reactions are generally those tests affected. Ascorbic acid may lead to inaccurate results (false negatives) obtained for checking blood or urinary glucose levels, nitrite, bilirubin, and leukocytes if tested during or within 24 hours after infusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] .
