Drug: asenapine_maleate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive Drugs: Asenapine sublingual tablets may cause hypotension. ( 5.7 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Paroxetine (CYP2D6 substrate and inhibitor): Reduce paroxetine by half when used in combination with asenapine sublingual tablets. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Asenapine Sublingual Tablets Table 12: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Asenapine Sublingual Tablets Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Antihypertensive Drugs Because of its α 1 -adrenergic antagonism with potential for inducing hypotension, asenapine sublingual tablets may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Monitor blood pressure and adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug accordingly. Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., Fluvoxamine) Asenapine sublingual tablets are metabolized by CYP1A2. Marginal increase of asenapine exposure was observed when asenapine sublingual tablets are used with fluvoxamine at 25 mg administered twice daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . However, the tested fluvoxamine dose was suboptimal. Full therapeutic dose of fluvoxamine is expected to cause a greater increase in asenapine exposure. Dosage reduction for asenapine sublingual tablets based on clinical response may be necessary. CYP2D6 substrates and inhibitors (e.g., paroxetine) Asenapine sublingual tablets may enhance the inhibitory effects of paroxetine on its own metabolism. Concomitant use of paroxetine with asenapine sublingual tablets increased the paroxetine exposure by 2-fold as compared to use paroxetine alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Reduce paroxetine dose by half when paroxetine is used in combination with asenapine sublingual tablets. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Asenapine Sublingual Tablets No dosage adjustment of asenapine sublingual tablets are necessary when administered concomitantly with paroxetine (see Table 12 in Drug Interactions (7.1) for paroxetine dosage adjustment), imipramine, cimetidine, valproate, lithium, or a CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin). In addition, valproic acid and lithium pre-dose serum concentrations collected from an adjunctive therapy study were comparable between asenapine-treated patients and placebo-treated patients indicating a lack of effect of asenapine on valproic and lithium plasma levels.
