Drug: bedaquiline_fumarate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers with SIRTURO. ( 7.1 ) Closely monitor patient safety (e.g., liver function) when SIRTURO is coadministered with CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 5.4 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on SIRTURO Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration of SIRTURO with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers may decrease systemic exposure of bedaquiline. Avoid coadministration of SIRTURO with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration of SIRTURO with CYP3A4 inhibitors increases the systemic exposure of bedaquiline which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Closely monitor patient safety (e.g., liver function) when SIRTURO is coadministered with CYP3A4 inhibitors. No dose adjustment of SIRTURO is needed when coadministered with CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Other Antimicrobial Medications No dose adjustment of isoniazid or pyrazinamide is required during coadministration with SIRTURO. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial in adult patients, no major impact of coadministration of SIRTURO on the pharmacokinetics of ethambutol, kanamycin, pyrazinamide, ofloxacin or cycloserine was observed. 7.3 QTc Interval Prolonging Drugs In clinical trials of adult patients, additional QTc interval prolongation was observed during combination treatment with SIRTURO and other QTc prolonging drugs. In Study 3, concurrent use of clofazimine with SIRTURO resulted in QTc prolongation: mean increases in QTc were larger in the 17 adult patients who were taking clofazimine with bedaquiline at Week 24 (mean change from Day-1 of 32 ms) than in patients who were not taking clofazimine with bedaquiline at Week 24 (mean change from Day-1 of 12 ms). Monitor ECGs if SIRTURO is coadministered to patients receiving other drugs that prolong the QTc interval, and discontinue SIRTURO if there is evidence of serious ventricular arrhythmia or QTc interval greater than 500 ms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . ECG monitoring should be performed prior to initiation and at the expected time of maximum increase in the QTc interval of the concomitantly administered QTc prolonging drugs.
