Drug: bempedoic_acid_and_ezetimibe

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with NEXLIZET have been conducted. Table 4 lists drug interactions with NEXLIZET that have been identified in studies with bempedoic acid or ezetimibe. Table 4. Clinically Important Drug Interactions with NEXLIZET Simvastatin Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NEXLIZET with simvastatin causes an increase in simvastatin concentration and may increase the risk of simvastatin-related myopathy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of NEXLIZET with simvastatin greater than 20 mg. Pravastatin Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NEXLIZET with pravastatin causes an increase in pravastatin concentration and may increase the risk of pravastatin-related myopathy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of NEXLIZET with pravastatin greater than 40 mg. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NEXLIZET and cyclosporine increases ezetimibe and cyclosporine concentrations. The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor cyclosporine concentrations in patients receiving NEXLIZET and cyclosporine. In patients treated with cyclosporine, weigh the potential effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe from concomitant use against the benefits of alterations in lipid levels provided by NEXLIZET. Fibrates Clinical Impact: Both fenofibrate and ezetimibe (a component of NEXLIZET) may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Coadministration of NEXLIZET with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Intervention: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving NEXLIZET and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of fibrates with bempedoic acid (a component of NEXLIZET) resulted in increased triglycerides and decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in some patients in clinical studies and post-marketing reports. Reversibility of both increased triglycerides and decreased HDL-C levels was observed when either bempedoic acid or fibrate therapy was discontinued. Intervention: Monitor triglycerides and HDL-C four weeks after initial concomitant use of NEXLIZET and a fibrate and periodically thereafter. If increased triglycerides or decreased HDL-C levels are detected, discontinue NEXLIZET or fibrate therapy based on clinical judgment. Monitor triglycerides and HDL-C levels until levels return to baseline. Cholestyramine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NEXLIZET and cholestyramine decreases ezetimibe concentration. This may result in a reduction of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Administer NEXLIZET either at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after bile acid sequestrants [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Simvastatin: Avoid concomitant use of NEXLIZET with simvastatin greater than 20 mg. ( 7 ) Pravastatin: Avoid concomitant use of NEXLIZET with pravastatin greater than 40 mg. ( 7 ) Cyclosporine: Monitor cyclosporine concentrations. ( 7 ) Fibrates: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving NEXLIZET and fenofibrate, consider alternative lipid-lowering therapy. ( 6.2 , 7 ) Concomitant use of NEXLIZET with fibrates may increase triglycerides and decrease high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. ( 7 )
