Drug: berotralstat_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS P-gp inducers: Avoid use with ORLADEYO. ( 7.1 ) CYP2D6, CYP3A4 or P-gp Substrates: When used concomitantly with ORLADEYO, closely monitor or modify the dosage of the substrates where minimal increases in concentration may lead to serious adverse reactions. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on ORLADEYO P-gp Inducers Berotralstat is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP. P-gp inducers may decrease berotralstat plasma concentration, leading to reduced efficacy of ORLADEYO. Avoid concomitant use of P-gp inducers with ORLADEYO. 7.2 Effect of ORLADEYO on Other Drugs CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 Substrates ORLADEYO at a dose of 150 mg is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Concomitant use of ORLADEYO with CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 substrates can increase exposure of the CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 substrates and may increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with the substrates. If ORLADEYO is concomitantly used with CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 substrates where minimal increases in the concentration of the substrates may lead to serious adverse reactions, closely monitor or modify the dosage of the CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Refer to the Prescribing Information of the CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 substrate. Desogestrel Concomitant use of ORLADEYO with desogestrel increases exposure to etonogestrel, the active metabolite of desogestrel, and may increase the risk of desogestrel-associated adverse reactions. Consider the benefits and risks when using ORLADEYO concomitantly with desogestrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . P-gp Substrates ORLADEYO at 2-times the maximum recommended dose of 150 mg is a P-gp inhibitor and can increase exposure of P-gp substrates, leading to increased risk of adverse reactions associated with the substrates. Higher-than-recommended dosages of ORLADEYO are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . If ORLADEYO is concomitantly used with P-gp substrates where minimal increases in the concentration of the substrates may lead to serious adverse reactions, closely monitor or modify the dosage of the P-gp substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Refer to the Prescribing Information of the P-gp substrate.
