Drug: betamethasone_sodium_phosphate,_betamethasone_acetate,_lidocaine,_iodixanol,_pov

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions Metformin In patients with renal impairment, metformin can cause lactic acidosis. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function. Stop metformin at the time of, or prior to, iodixanol administration in patients with an eGFR between 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment, alcoholism or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure, and reinstitute metformin only after renal function is stable. Radioactive Iodine Administration of iodinated contrast agents may interfere with thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine (I-131 and I-123) and decrease therapeutic and diagnostic efficacy in patients with carcinoma of the thyroid. The decrease in efficacy lasts for 6 to 8 weeks. Beta-adrenergic Blocking Agents The use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents lowers the threshold for and increases the severity of contrast reactions, and reduces the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine. Because of the risk of hypersensitivity reactions, use caution when administering iodixanol to patients taking beta-blockers. Oral Cholecystographic Contrast Agents Renal toxicity has been reported in patients with liver dysfunction who were given an oral cholecystographic agent followed by intravascular iodinated contrast agents. Postpone the administration of iodixanol in patients who have recently received an oral cholecystographic contrast agent. 7.2 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Effect on Thyroid Tests The results of protein bound iodine and radioactive iodine uptake studies, which depend on iodine estimation, will not accurately reflect thyroid function for at least 16 days following administration of iodinated contrast agents. However, thyroid function tests which do not depend on iodine estimations (e.g., T3 resin uptake and total or free thyroxine T4 assays) are not affected. Effect on Urine Tests As reported with other contrast agents, iodixanol may produce a false-positive result for protein in the urine using urine dip tests. However, the Coomassie blue method has been shown to give accurate results for the measurement of urine protein in the presence of iodixanol. In addition, care should be used in interpreting the results of urine specific gravity measurements in the presence of high levels of iodixanol and other contrast agents in the urine. Refractometry or urine osmolality may be substituted.
Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Interactions with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Corticosteroids (including betamethasone) are metabolized by CYP3A4. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, cobicistat-containing products) may lead to increased exposures of corticosteroids and therefore the potential for increased risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. Consider the benefit of coadministration versus the potential risk of systemic corticosteroid effects, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section).
Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.
