Drug: betibeglogene_autotemcel

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. ZYNTEGLO is not expected to interact with the hepatic cytochrome P-450 family of enzymes or drug transporters. Anti-retrovirals and Hydroxyurea : Do not take anti-retroviral medications or hydroxyurea for one month prior to mobilization, or for the expected duration for elimination of the medications, and until all cycles of apheresis are completed ( 7.2 ) Iron Chelation: Discontinue iron chelators 7 days prior to initiation of myeloablative conditioning. Avoid use of myelosuppressive iron chelators for 6 months after ZYNTEGLO infusion. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Live Vaccines Follow institutional guidelines for vaccine administration. The safety of immunization with live viral vaccines during or following ZYNTEGLO treatment has not been studied. 7.2 Anti-retrovirals and Hydroxyurea Patients should not take anti-retroviral medications or hydroxyurea for at least one month prior to mobilization or the expected duration for elimination of the medications, and until all cycles of apheresis are completed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Anti-retroviral medications may interfere with manufacturing of the apheresed cells. 7.3 Iron Chelation Drug-drug interactions between iron chelators and the myeloablative conditioning agent must be considered. Iron chelators should be discontinued at least 7 days prior to initiation of conditioning. The prescribing information for the iron chelator(s) and the myeloablative conditioning agent should be consulted for the recommendations regarding co-administration with CYP3A substrates. Some iron chelators are myelosuppressive. After ZYNTEGLO infusion, avoid use of these iron chelators for 6 months. If iron chelation is needed, consider administration of non-myelosuppressive iron chelators . Phlebotomy can be used in lieu of iron chelation, when appropriate [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 7.4 Erythropoiesis-Stimulating Agents There is no clinical experience with the use of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents in patients treated with ZYNTEGLO.
