Drug: bictegravir_sodium,_emtricitabine,_and_tenofovir_alafenamide_fumarate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Because BIKTARVY is a complete regimen, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) Consult the Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important drug interactions. ( 4 , 5.2 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Other Antiretroviral Medications Because BIKTARVY is a complete regimen, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended [see Indications and Usage (1) ] . Comprehensive information regarding potential drug-drug interactions with other antiretroviral medications is not provided because the safety and efficacy of concomitant HIV-1 antiretroviral therapy is unknown. 7.2 Potential for BIKTARVY to Affect Other Drugs BIC inhibits organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2) and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporter 1 (MATE1) in vitro . Coadministration of BIKTARVY with drugs that are substrates of OCT2 and MATE1 (e.g., dofetilide) may increase their plasma concentrations (see Table 3 ). 7.3 Potential Effect of Other Drugs on One or More Components of BIKTARVY BIC is a substrate of CYP3A and UGT1A1. A drug that is a strong inducer of CYP3A and also an inducer of UGT1A1 can substantially decrease the plasma concentrations of BIC which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of BIKTARVY and development of resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The use of BIKTARVY with a drug that is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and also an inhibitor of UGT1A1 may significantly increase the plasma concentrations of BIC. TAF is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Co-administration of drugs that inhibit P-gp and BCRP may increase the absorption and plasma concentrations of TAF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Co-administration of drugs that induce P-gp activity are expected to decrease the absorption of TAF, resulting in decreased plasma concentration of TAF, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of BIKTARVY and development of resistance (see Table 3 ). 7.4 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Because FTC and tenofovir are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, coadministration of BIKTARVY with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of FTC, tenofovir, and other renally eliminated drugs and this may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Some examples of drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.5 Established and Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 3 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions with recommended prevention or management strategies. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either BIKTARVY, the components of BIKTARVY (BIC, FTC, and TAF) as individual agents, or are drug interactions that may occur with BIKTARVY [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 3 Established and Potentially Significant Table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Regimen May be Recommended Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration ↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease. Clinical Comment Antiarrhythmics: dofetilide ↑ Dofetilide Coadministration is contraindicated due to the potential for serious and/or life-threatening events associated with dofetilide therapy [see Contraindications (4) ] . Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine Drug-drug interaction study was conducted with either BIKTARVY or its components as individual agents. oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin ↓ BIC ↓ TAF Coadministration with alternative anticonvulsants should be considered. Antimycobacterials: rifabutin rifampin , Strong inducer of CYP3Aand P-gp, and inducer of UGT1A1. rifapentine ↓ BIC ↓ TAF Coadministration with rifampin is contraindicated due to the effect of rifampin on the BIC component of BIKTARVY [see Contraindications (4) ] . Coadministration with rifabutin or rifapentine is not recommended. Herbal Products: St. John's wort The induction potency of St. John's wort may vary widely based on preparation. ↓ BIC ↓ TAF Coadministration with St. John's wort is not recommended. Medications or oral supplements containing polyvalent cations (e.g., Mg, Al, Ca, Fe): Calcium or iron supplements Cation-containing antacids or laxatives Sucralfate Buffered medications ↓ BIC Antacids containing Al/Mg: BIKTARVY can be taken at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking antacids containing Al/Mg. Routine administration of BIKTARVY together with, or 2 hours after, antacids containing Al/Mg is not recommended. Supplements or Antacids containing Calcium or Iron: BIKTARVY and supplements or antacids containing calcium or iron can be taken together with food. Routine administration of BIKTARVY under fasting conditions together with, or 2 hours after, supplements or antacids containing calcium or iron is not recommended. Metformin ↑ Metformin Refer to the prescribing information of metformin for assessing the benefit and risk of concomitant use of BIKTARVY and metformin. 7.6 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with BIKTARVY Based on drug interaction studies conducted with BIKTARVY or the components of BIKTARVY, no clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when BIKTARVY is combined with the following drugs: ethinyl estradiol, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, midazolam, norgestimate, sertraline, sofosbuvir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir, and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir.
