Drug: bosentan

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cytochrome P450: Coadministration of TRACLEER with drugs metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A can increase exposure to TRACLEER and/or the coadministered drug ( 4.2 , 4.3 , 7.1 ). Hormonal contraceptives: TRACLEER use decreases contraceptive exposure and reduces effectiveness ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Drug Interactions Bosentan is metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A. Inhibition of these enzymes may increase the plasma concentration of bosentan [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant administration of both a CYP2C9 inhibitor (such as fluconazole or amiodarone) and a strong CYP3A inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole) or a moderate CYP3A inhibitor (e.g., amprenavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, diltiazem) with TRACLEER will likely lead to large increases in plasma concentrations of bosentan. Co-administration of such combinations of a CYP2C9 inhibitor plus a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor with TRACLEER is not recommended. Bosentan is an inducer of CYP3A and CYP2C9. Consequently plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by these two isozymes will be decreased when TRACLEER is co-administered. Bosentan had no relevant inhibitory effect on any CYP isozyme in vitro (CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A). Consequently, TRACLEER is not expected to increase the plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by these enzymes. Figure 1. CYP3A induction-mediated effect of bosentan on other drugs Figure 2. Effect of other drugs on bosentan Figure 1 Figure 2 7.2 Hormonal Contraceptives Hormonal contraceptives, including oral, injectable, transdermal, and implantable forms, may not be reliable when TRACLEER is co-administered. Females should practice additional methods of contraception and not rely on hormonal contraception alone when taking TRACLEER [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] . An interaction study demonstrated that co-administration of bosentan and a combination oral hormonal contraceptive produced average decreases of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol levels of 14% and 31%, respectively. However, decreases in exposure were as much as 56% and 66%, respectively, in individual subjects.
