Drug: budesonide,_glycopyrrolate,_and_formoterol_fumarate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with BREZTRI AEROSPHERE. • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir): Use with caution. May cause systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) • Other adrenergic drugs may potentiate effect: Use with caution. (7.2) • Diuretics, xanthine derivatives or steroids may potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes. Use with caution. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of formoterol fumarate on cardiovascular system. ( 7.5 ) • Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. ( 7.6 ) • Anticholinergics: May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Avoid administration of BREZTRI AEROSPHERE with other anticholinergic-containing drugs. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 The main route of metabolism of corticosteroids, including budesonide, a component of BREZTRI AEROSPHERE, is via cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4). After oral administration of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, the mean plasma concentration of orally administered budesonide increased. Concomitant administration of a CYP3A4 inhibitor may inhibit the metabolism of, and increase the systemic exposure to, budesonide. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of BREZTRI AEROSPHERE with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . 7.2 Adrenergic Drugs If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route, they should be used with caution because the sympathetic effects of formoterol, a component of BREZTRI AEROSPHERE, may be potentiated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.3 Xanthine Derivatives, Steroids, or Diuretics Concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives, steroids, or diuretics may potentiate the hypokalemic effect of beta 2 -adrenergic agonists such as formoterol, a component of BREZTRI AEROSPHERE. 7.4 Non-Potassium Sparing Diuretics The hypokalemia and/or ECG changes that may result from the administration of non-potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta 2 -agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta 2 -agonist is exceeded. 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors, Tricyclic Antidepressants, QTc Prolonging Drugs BREZTRI AEROSPHERE, as with other beta 2 -agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants or other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval because the action of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval may be associated with an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. 7.6 Beta-adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists (beta-blockers) and BREZTRI AEROSPHERE may interfere with the effect of each other when administered concurrently. Beta-blockers not only block the therapeutic effects of beta 2 -agonists, but may produce severe bronchospasm in COPD patients. Therefore, patients with COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, e.g., as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-blockers in patients with COPD. In this setting, cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.7 Anticholinergics There is a potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Therefore, avoid coadministration of BREZTRI AEROSPHERE with other anticholinergic-containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 , 5.10 ) and Adverse Reactions (6) ].
7.7 Anticholinergics There is a potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Therefore, avoid coadministration of BREZTRI AEROSPHERE with other anticholinergic-containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 , 5.10 ) and Adverse Reactions (6) ].
