Drug: bupivacaine_and_meloxicam

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking ZYNRELEF with drugs that interfere with hemostasis ( 7.2 ). ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs), or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with ZYNRELEF may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7.2 ). ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with ZYNRELEF in elderly, volume-depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high-risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7.2 ). Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Bupivacaine Drug Interactions In clinical studies, other local anesthetics (including ropivacaine and lidocaine) have been administered before, during, or after application of ZYNRELEF without evidence of local anesthetic systemic toxicity. Administration of ZYNRELEF with other formulations of local anesthetics, including bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension, has not been studied [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Avoid additional use of local anesthetics within 96 hours following administration of ZYNRELEF. If co-administration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Overdosage (10) ] . Patients who are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics (Table 5). Table 5. Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.2 Meloxicam Drug Interactions See Table 6 for clinically significant drug interactions with meloxicam. Table 6. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Meloxicam Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Meloxicam and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of meloxicam and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of ZYNRELEF with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] . Aspirin Clinical Impact: In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Intervention: If aspirin is indicated in the postoperative period, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, or Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, coadministration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of ZYNRELEF and ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of ZYNRELEF and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs have reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. However, studies with furosemide agents and meloxicam have not demonstrated a reduction in natriuretic effect. Furosemide single and multiple dose pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics are not affected by multiple doses of meloxicam. Intervention: During concomitant use of ZYNRELEF with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of NSAIDS with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of ZYNRELEF and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor patients on lithium for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of ZYNRELEF and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of ZYNRELEF and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Intervention: If additional NSAID or salicylate medication is indicated in the postoperative period, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of GI toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of ZYNRELEF and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Patients taking meloxicam should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. In patients with creatinine clearance below 45 mL/min, the concomitant administration of meloxicam with pemetrexed is not recommended.
