Drug: bupivacaine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7. DRUG INTERACTIONS The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive and concomitant use should be used with caution including monitoring for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Overdosage ( 10 ) ]. Avoid additional use of local anesthetics within 96 hours following administration of bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension. Patients who are administered local anesthetics, including bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension, may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants Phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine Bupivacaine Bupivacaine HCl administered together with bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension may impact the pharmacokinetic and/or physicochemical properties of bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension, and this effect is concentration dependent. Therefore, bupivacaine HCl and bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension may be administered simultaneously in the same syringe, and bupivacaine HCl may be injected immediately before bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension as long as the ratio of the milligram dose of bupivacaine HCl solution to bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension does not exceed 1:2. Non-Bupivacaine Local Anesthetics Bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension should not be admixed with local anesthetics other than bupivacaine. Non-bupivacaine based local anesthetics, including lidocaine, may cause an immediate release of bupivacaine from bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension if administered together locally. The administration of bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension may follow the administration of lidocaine after a delay of 20 minutes or more. There are no data to support administration of other local anesthetics prior to administration of bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension. Other than bupivacaine as noted above, bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension should not be admixed with other drugs prior to administration. Water and Hypotonic Agents Do not dilute bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension with water or other hypotonic agents, as it will result in disruption of the liposomal particles. Lidocaine or other non-bupivacaine local anesthetics: Do not admix with bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension. Bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension may be administered at least 20 minutes or more following local administration of lidocaine ( 7 ). Bupivacaine HCl: Do not exceed a milligram dose of bupivacaine HCl solution to bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension of 1:2 when admixing, as this may impact the pharmacokinetics and/or physicochemical properties of the drugs ( 7 ).
