Drug: butorphanol_tartrate

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Sumatriptan In healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetics of a 1 mg dose of butorphanol administered as Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray were not affected by the coadministration of a single 6 mg subcutaneous dose of sumatriptan. However, in another study in healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetics of butorphanol were significantly altered (29% decrease in AUC and 38% decreases in C max ) when a 1 mg dose of Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray was administered 1 minute after a 20 mg dose of sumatriptan nasal spray. (The two drugs were administered in opposite nostrils.) When the Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray was administered 30 minutes after the sumatriptan nasal spray, the AUC of butorphanol increased 11% and C max decreased 18%. In neither case were the pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan affected by coadministration with Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray. These results suggest that the analgesic effect of Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray may be diminished when it is administered shortly after sumatriptan nasal spray, but by 30 minutes any such reduction in effect should be minimal. The safety of using Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray and IMITREX ®1 (sumatriptan) Nasal Spray during the same episode of migraine has not been established. However, it should be noted that both products are capable of producing transient increases in blood pressure. Cimetidine The pharmacokinetics of a 1 mg dose of butorphanol administered as Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray were not affected by the coadministration of cimetidine (300 mg QID). Conversely, the administration of Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray (1 mg butorphanol QID) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a 300 mg dose of cimetidine. Oxymetazoline The fraction of Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray absorbed is unaffected by the concomitant administration of a nasal vasoconstrictor (oxymetazoline), but the rate of absorption is decreased. Therefore, a slower onset can be anticipated if Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray is administered concomitantly with, or immediately following, a nasal vasoconstrictor.
Drug Interactions Benzodiazepine and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ] . If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Cytochrome P450 (CYP 450) Interactions It is not known if the effects of Butorphanol Tartrate Nasal Spray are altered by concomitant medications that affect hepatic metabolism of drugs (CYP 450 inhibitors or inducers) (e.g., erythromycin, theophylline, etc.), but physicians should be alert to the possibility that a smaller initial dose and longer intervals between doses may be needed. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) No information is available about the use of butorphanol concurrently with MAO inhibitors. Advise patient to avoid concomitant use of these drugs.
