Drug: cabotegravir_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Refer to the full prescribing information for important drug interactions with VOCABRIA. ( 4 , 5.5 , 7 ) • VOCABRIA in combination with EDURANT is a complete regimen for HIV-1 treatment. Coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for PrEP is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) • Drugs that induce uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A1 may decrease the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir. ( 4 , 7.2 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Concomitant Use with Other Antiretroviral Medicines VOCABRIA in combination with EDURANT (rilpivirine) is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. Refer to the prescribing information for EDURANT for relevant information on rilpivirine. Coadministration of VOCABRIA with other antiretroviral medications for PrEP is not recommended [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Prior to initiating dosing with VOCABRIA, the prescribing information for CABENUVA (cabotegravir extended-release injectable suspension; rilpivirine extended-release injectable suspension) or APRETUDE should be consulted to ensure use of CABENUVA or APRETUDE will be appropriate for either the treatment of HIV-1 infection or HIV-1 PrEP, respectively. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect VOCABRIA Cabotegravir is primarily metabolized by UGT1A1 with some contribution from UGT1A9. Drugs that are strong inducers of UGT1A1 or UGT1A9 are expected to decrease cabotegravir plasma concentrations and may result in loss of efficacy; therefore, coadministration of VOCABRIA with these drugs is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Coadministration of oral cabotegravir with polyvalent cation-containing products may lead to decreased absorption of cabotegravir [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )] . 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Information regarding potential drug interactions with cabotegravir are provided in Table 1 . These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of the interaction and potential for loss of efficacy [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 1 includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive. Refer to the prescribing information for EDURANT (rilpivirine) for established or potentially significant interactions that should be considered during concomitant administration of VOCABRIA and EDURANT for HIV-1 treatment. Table 1. Drug Interactions with VOCABRIA ↓ = Decrease; PrEP = Pre-exposure prophylaxis. a Rifabutin can be coadministered with cabotegravir; however, it is contraindicated with CABENUVA for HIV-1 treatment. Dosage modification is recommended with APRETUDE for HIV-1 PrEP. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment Antacids containing polyvalent cations (e.g., aluminum or magnesium hydroxide, calcium carbonate) ↓Cabotegravir Administer antacid products at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after taking VOCABRIA. Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine Oxcarbazepine Phenobarbital Phenytoin ↓Cabotegravir Coadministration is contraindicated with VOCABRIA due to potential for loss of efficacy and development of resistance [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Antimycobacterials a : Rifampin Rifapentine ↓Cabotegravir Antimycobacterial: Rifabutin ↓Cabotegravir Dose modification is not required for VOCABRIA. Dose modification is recommended for APRETUDE for HIV-1 PrEP. Coadministration is contraindicated with CABENUVA for HIV-1 treatment. 7.4 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with Cabotegravir Based on drug interaction study results, the following drugs can be coadministered with cabotegravir without a dose adjustment: etravirine, midazolam, oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol, rifabutin, and rilpivirine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Prior to initiating oral therapy, note that use of CABENUVA (cabotegravir extended-release injectable suspension; rilpivirine extended-release injectable suspension) with rifabutin is contraindicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. Dosage modification is recommended when APRETUDE is used with rifabutin for HIV-1 PrEP.
