Drug: cabotegravir

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Refer to the full prescribing information for important drug interactions with APRETUDE. ( 4 , 5.7 , 7 ) • Drugs that induce uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A1 may significantly decrease plasma concentrations of cabotegravir. ( 4 , 7.2 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Use of Other Antiretroviral Drugs after Discontinuation of APRETUDE Residual concentrations of cabotegravir may remain in the systemic circulation of individuals for prolonged periods (up to 12 months or longer). These residual concentrations are not expected to affect the exposures of antiretroviral drugs that are initiated after discontinuation of APRETUDE [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect APRETUDE Cabotegravir is primarily metabolized by UGT1A1 with some contribution from UGT1A9. Drugs that are strong inducers of UGT1A1 or 1A9 are expected to decrease cabotegravir plasma concentrations; therefore, coadministration of APRETUDE with these drugs is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Information regarding potential drug interactions with cabotegravir is provided in Table 8 . These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials following oral administration of cabotegravir or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of the interaction [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 8 includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive. Table 8. Drug Interactions with APRETUDE ↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease, ↔ = No change. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine Oxcarbazepine Phenobarbital Phenytoin ↓Cabotegravir Coadministration is contraindicated with APRETUDE due to potential for significant decreases in plasma concentration of APRETUDE. Antimycobacterials: Rifampin Rifapentine ↓Cabotegravir Antimycobacterial: Rifabutin ↓Cabotegravir When rifabutin is started before or concomitantly with the first initiation injection of APRETUDE, the recommended dosing of APRETUDE is one 600-mg (3-mL) injection, followed 2 weeks later by a second 600‑mg (3-mL) initiation injection and monthly thereafter while on rifabutin. When rifabutin is started at the time of the second initiation injection or later, the recommended dosing schedule of APRETUDE is 600‑mg (3 mL) monthly while on rifabutin. After stopping rifabutin, the recommended dosing schedule of APRETUDE is 600-mg (3 mL) every 2 months. 7.4 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with Cabotegravir Based on drug interaction study results, the following drugs can be coadministered with cabotegravir (non-antiretrovirals) or given after discontinuation of cabotegravir (antiretrovirals and non-antiretrovirals) without a dose adjustment: etravirine, midazolam, oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol, and rilpivirine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
