Drug: cabotegravir_and_rilpivirine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Refer to the full prescribing information for important drug interactions with CABENUVA. ( 4 , 5.5 , 7 ) • Because CABENUVA is a complete regimen, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) • Drugs that induce uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A1 or cytochrome P450 (CYP)3A4 may decrease the plasma concentrations of the components of CABENUVA. ( 4 , 7.3 , 7.4 ) • CABENUVA should be used with caution in combination with drugs with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Concomitant Use with Other Antiretroviral Medicines Because CABENUVA is a complete regimen, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended [see Indications and Usage ( 1 )] . 7.2 Use of Other Antiretroviral Drugs after Discontinuation of CABENUVA Residual concentrations of cabotegravir and rilpivirine may remain in the systemic circulation of patients for prolonged periods (up to 12 months or longer). These residual concentrations are not expected to affect the exposures of antiretroviral drugs that are initiated after discontinuation of CABENUVA [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect CABENUVA Refer to the prescribing information for VOCABRIA (cabotegravir) and EDURANT (rilpivirine) for additional drug interaction information related to oral cabotegravir and oral rilpivirine, respectively. Cabotegravir Cabotegravir is primarily metabolized by UGT1A1 with some contribution from UGT1A9. Drugs that are strong inducers of UGT1A1 or UGT1A9 are expected to decrease cabotegravir plasma concentrations and may result in loss of virologic response; therefore, coadministration of CABENUVA with these drugs is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Rilpivirine Rilpivirine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A. Coadministration of CABENUVA and drugs that induce CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine and loss of virologic response and possible resistance to rilpivirine or to the class of NNRTIs [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. Coadministration of CABENUVA and drugs that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . QT-Prolonging Drugs: At mean steady-state C max values 4.4- and 11.6-fold higher than those with the recommended 600‑mg dose of rilpivirine extended-release injectable suspension, rilpivirine may prolong the QTc interval [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . CABENUVA should be used with caution in combination with drugs with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . 7.4 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Refer to the prescribing information for VOCABRIA (cabotegravir) and EDURANT (rilpivirine) for additional drug interaction information related to oral cabotegravir and oral rilpivirine, respectively. Information regarding potential drug interactions with cabotegravir and rilpivirine is provided in Table 8 . These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials following oral administration of cabotegravir or rilpivirine or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of the interaction and potential for loss of virologic response [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 8 includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive. Table 8. Drug Interactions with CABENUVA ↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease, ↔ = No change. a See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) for magnitude of interaction. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine Oxcarbazepine Phenobarbital Phenytoin ↓Cabotegravir ↓Rilpivirine Coadministration is contraindicated with CABENUVA due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Antimycobacterials: Rifampin a Rifapentine ↓Cabotegravir ↓Rilpivirine Antimycobacterial: Rifabutin a ↓Cabotegravir ↔Rifabutin ↓Rilpivirine Glucocorticoid (systemic): Dexamethasone (more than a single-dose treatment) ↓Rilpivirine Herbal product: St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) ↓Rilpivirine Macrolide or ketolide antibiotics: Azithromycin Clarithromycin Erythromycin ↔Cabotegravir ↑Rilpivirine Macrolides are expected to increase concentrations of rilpivirine and are associated with a risk of Torsade de Pointes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Where possible, consider alternatives, such as azithromycin, which increases rilpivirine concentrations less than other macrolides. Narcotic analgesic: Methadone a ↔Cabotegravir ↓Methadone ↔Rilpivirine No dose adjustment of methadone is required when starting coadministration of methadone with CABENUVA. However, clinical monitoring is recommended as methadone maintenance therapy may need to be adjusted in some patients. 7.5 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions Cabotegravir Based on drug interaction study results, the following drugs can be coadministered with cabotegravir (non-antiretrovirals and rilpivirine) or given after discontinuation of cabotegravir (antiretrovirals and non-antiretrovirals) without a dose adjustment: etravirine, midazolam, oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol, and rilpivirine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Rilpivirine Based on drug interaction study results, the following drugs can be coadministered with rilpivirine (non-antiretrovirals and cabotegravir) or given after discontinuation of rilpivirine (antiretrovirals and non-antiretrovirals): acetaminophen, atorvastatin, cabotegravir, chlorzoxazone, dolutegravir, ethinyl estradiol, norethindrone, raltegravir, ritonavir-boosted atazanavir, ritonavir-boosted darunavir, sildenafil, tenofovir alafenamide, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Rilpivirine did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin or metformin.
