Drug: calcifediol

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Co-administration of cytochrome P450 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, may alter serum levels of calcifediol. ( 7.1 ) • Co-administration of thiazides may cause hypercalcemia. ( 7.2 ) • Cholestyramine may impair the absorption of calcifediol. ( 7.3 ) • The half-life of calcifediol is reduced by drugs stimulating microsomal hydroxylation, such as phenobarbital or other anticonvulsants. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 CYP3A Inhibitors Cytochrome P450 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin or voriconazole, may inhibit enzymes involved in vitamin D metabolism (CYP24A1 and CYP27B1), and may alter serum levels of calcifediol. Dose adjustment of RAYALDEE may be required, and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. 7.2 Thiazides Thiazides are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing excretion of calcium in the urine. Concomitant administration of thiazides with RAYALDEE may cause hypercalcemia. Patients may require more frequent serum calcium monitoring in this setting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 7.3 Cholestyramine Cholestyramine has been reported to reduce intestinal absorption of fat-soluble vitamins and may impair the absorption of calcifediol, the active ingredient in RAYALDEE. Dose adjustment of RAYALDEE may be required, and serum total 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with cholestyramine. 7.4 Other Agents Phenobarbital or other anticonvulsants or other compounds that stimulate microsomal hydroxylation reduce the half-life of calcifediol, the active ingredient in RAYALDEE. Dose adjustment of RAYALDEE may be required, and serum total 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with phenobarbital or other anticonvulsants.
