Drug: canagliflozin_and_metformin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 8: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Intervention: Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Examples: Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) Drugs That Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Examples: Ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine Alcohol Clinical Impact: Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin HCl on lactate metabolism. Intervention: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR. UGT Enzyme Inducers Clinical Impact: UGT enzyme inducers decrease canagliflozin exposure which may reduce the effectiveness of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR. Intervention: For patients with eGFR 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 or greater, if an inducer of UGTs is co-administered with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR, increase the total daily dose of canagliflozin to 200 mg in patients currently tolerating INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR with a total daily dose of canagliflozin 100 mg. The total daily dose of canagliflozin may be increased to 300 mg in patients currently tolerating canagliflozin 200 mg and who require additional glycemic control. For patients with eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , if an inducer of UGTs is co-administered with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR, increase the total daily dose of canagliflozin to 200 mg in patients currently tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Examples: Rifampin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact: The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR is used concomitantly with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin. Intervention: Concomitant use may require a lower dosage of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact: Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. Intervention: When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR, monitor for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR, monitor for hypoglycemia. Examples: Thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blockers, and isoniazid. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Canagliflozin increases digoxin exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor patients taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR with concomitant digoxin for a need to adjust the dosage of digoxin. Lithium Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention: Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR initiation and dosage changes. Drug/Laboratory Test Interference Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact: SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion which will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Intervention: Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) Assay Clinical Impact: Measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Intervention: Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring ( 7 ) Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider benefits and risks of concomitant use ( 7 ) See full prescribing information for additional drug interactions and information on interference of INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR with laboratory tests. ( 7 )
