Drug: candesartan

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity ( 7 ). • NSAIDs use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7 ) • Combined inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Co-administration of candesartan cilexetil with potassium sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, potassium-containing salt substitutes or other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including candesartan cilexetil. Monitor serum lithium levels. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including candesartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving candesartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including candesartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.4 Combination Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Triple combination of candesartan cilexetil with an ACE-inhibitor and a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist is generally not recommended. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on candesartan cilexetil and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with candesartan cilexetil in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with candesartan cilexetil in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min) [see Contraindications ( 4 )] .
