Drug: cannabidiol

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong inducer of CYP3A4 or CYP2C19: Consider dose increase of EPIDIOLEX. ( 7.1 ) • Consider a dose reduction of substrates of CYP1A2, CYP2C8, UGT1A9, and orally administered P-gp substrates. ( 7.2 ) • A lower starting dose of orally administered everolimus is recommended. ( 7.2 ) • Consider dose modification of CYP2B6 or CYP2C19 substrates. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on EPIDIOLEX Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C19 Inducers Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer (rifampin 600 mg once daily) decreased cannabidiol and 7‑OH‑CBD plasma concentrations by approximately 32% and 63%. The impact of such changes on efficacy of EPIDIOLEX is not known [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Consider an increase in EPIDIOLEX dosage (based on clinical response and tolerability) up to 2‑fold, when concomitantly used with a strong CYP3A4 and/or CYP2C19 inducer. 7.2 Effect of EPIDIOLEX on Other Drugs Antiepileptic Drugs Clobazam Concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX with clobazam increases plasma concentrations of N‑desmethylclobazam, the active metabolite of clobazam [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may increase the risk of clobazam-related adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Consider a reduction in dosage of clobazam if adverse reactions known to occur with clobazam are experienced when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. Stiripentol Concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX with stiripentol increases plasma exposures of stiripentol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monitor for stiripentol-related adverse reactions when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. Orally Administered P-gp Substrates Concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX with orally administered everolimus results in an approximately 2.5‑fold increase in plasma exposures of everolimus [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . When initiating EPIDIOLEX in patients taking everolimus, monitor therapeutic drug levels of everolimus and adjust the dosage accordingly. In patients on a stable dosage of EPIDIOLEX, it is recommended to initiate everolimus at a lower starting dosage and titrate the dose based on therapeutic drug monitoring. Increases in exposure of other orally administered P‑gp substrates (e.g., sirolimus, tacrolimus, digoxin) may be observed when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. Consider therapeutic drug monitoring and dosage reduction of other P‑gp substrates when given orally with EPIDIOLEX. CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, and UGT1A9 Substrates CYP1A2 Substrates Cannabidiol is a weak inhibitor of CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Increases in exposure of certain CYP1A2 substrates (e.g., theophylline, tizanidine) may be observed when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. Consider dosage reduction of CYP1A2 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions, as clinically appropriate, when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. CYP2B6 Substrates Cannabidiol is an inducer and inhibitor of CYP2B6 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. No clinically significant reduction in exposures of CYP2B6 substrates are observed when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX at 7.5 mg/kg twice daily. Changes in exposures of CYP2B6 substrates are unknown when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX at doses above 7.5 mg/kg twice daily. Consider dosage modification of CYP2B6 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX at doses above 7.5 mg/kg twice daily. CYP2C8 Substrates Concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX may cause clinically significant interactions with CYP2C8 substrates. Consider a reduction in dosage of CYP2C8 substrates, as clinically appropriate, if adverse reactions are experienced when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. CYP2C19 Substrates Cannabidiol is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C19 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX increases plasma concentrations of CYP2C19 substrates and may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Consider a dosage reduction of CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. For CYP2C19 substrates (e.g., clopidogrel) where efficacy is mainly due to their active metabolite(s), concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX may decrease plasma concentration of the active metabolite(s) and may therefore decrease efficacy. Consider a dosage increase of such CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. UGT1A9 Substrates Cannabidiol is an inhibitor of UGT1A9 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Increases in exposure of UGT1A9 substrates may be observed when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. Consider a reduction in dosage of UGT1A9 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions, as clinically appropriate, when concomitantly used with EPIDIOLEX. 7.3 Concomitant Use of EPIDIOLEX and Valproate Concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX and valproate increases the incidence of liver enzyme elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. If such elevations occur, consider discontinuation or reduction of EPIDIOLEX and/or concomitant valproate. Insufficient data are available to assess the risk of concomitant administration of other hepatotoxic drugs and EPIDIOLEX. 7.4 CNS Depressants and Alcohol Concomitant use of EPIDIOLEX with other CNS depressants (including alcohol) may increase the risk of sedation and somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] .
