Drug: capecitabine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Allopurinol: Avoid concomitant use of allopurinol with XELODA. ( 7.1 ) Leucovorin: Closely monitor for toxicities when XELODA is coadministered with leucovorin. ( 7.1 ) CYP2C9 substrates: Closely monitor for adverse reactions when CYP2C9 substrates are coadministered with XELODA. ( 7.2 ) Vitamin K antagonists: Monitor INR more frequently and dose adjust oral vitamin K antagonist as appropriate Phenytoin : Closely monitor phenytoin levels in patients taking XELODA concomitantly with phenytoin and adjust the phenytoin dose as appropriate. ( 7.2 ) Nephrotoxic drugs: Closely monitor for signs of renal toxicity when XELODA is used concomitantly with nephrotoxic drugs. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on XELODA Allopurinol Concomitant use with allopurinol may decrease concentration of capecitabine's active metabolites [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may decrease efficacy. Avoid concomitant use of allopurinol with XELODA. Leucovorin The concentration of fluorouracil is increased and its toxicity may be enhanced by leucovorin, folic acid, or folate analog products. Deaths from severe enterocolitis, diarrhea, and dehydration have been reported in elderly patients receiving weekly leucovorin and fluorouracil. Instruct patients not to take products containing folic acid or folate analog products unless directed to do so by their healthcare provider. 7.2 Effect of Xeloda on Other Drugs CYP2C9 Substrates XELODA increased exposure of CYP2C9 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Closely monitor for adverse reactions of CYP2C9 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions when used concomitantly with XELODA (e.g., anticoagulants, antidiabetic drugs). Vitamin K Antagonists XELODA increases exposure of vitamin K antagonist [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which m ay alter coagulation parameters and/or bleeding and could result in death [see Warning and Precautions (5.1) ] . These events may occur within days of treatment initiation and up to 1 month after discontinuation of XELODA. Monitor INR more frequently and refer to the prescribing information of oral vitamin K antagonist for dosage adjustment, as appropriate, when XELODA is used concomitantly with vitamin K antagonist. Phenytoin XELODA may increases exposure of phenytoin, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to phenytoin. Closely monitor phenytoin levels and refer to the prescribing information of phenytoin for dosage adjustment, as appropriate, when XELODA is used concomitantly with phenytoin. 7.3 Nephrotoxic Drugs Due of the additive pharmacologic effect, concomitant use of XELODA with other drugs known to cause renal toxicity may increase the risk of renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Closely monitor for signs of renal toxicity when XELODA is used concomitantly with nephrotoxic drugs (e.g. platinum salts, irinotecan, methotrexate, intravenous bisphosphonates).
