Drug: capmatinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on TABRECTA Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Coadministration of TABRECTA with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of TABRECTA [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Closely monitor patients for adverse reactions during coadministration of TABRECTA with strong CYP3A inhibitors. Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Coadministration of TABRECTA with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure. Coadministration of TABRECTA with a moderate CYP3A inducer may also decrease capmatinib exposure. Decreases in capmatinib exposure may decrease TABRECTA anti-tumor activity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Avoid coadministration of TABRECTA with strong and moderate CYP3A inducers. 7.2 Effect of TABRECTA on Other Drugs CYP1A2 Substrates Coadministration of TABRECTA increased the exposure of a CYP1A2 substrate, which may increase the adverse reactions of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If coadministration is unavoidable between TABRECTA and CYP1A2 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions, decrease the CYP1A2 substrate dosage in accordance with the approved prescribing information. P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) Substrates Coadministration of TABRECTA increased the exposure of a P-gp substrate and a BCRP substrate, which may increase the adverse reactions of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If coadministration is unavoidable between TABRECTA and P-gp or BCRP substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions, decrease the P-gp or BCRP substrate dosage in accordance with the approved prescribing information. MATE1 and MATE2K Substrates Coadministration of TABRECTA may increase the exposure of MATE1 and MATE2K substrates, which may increase the adverse reactions of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If coadministration is unavoidable between TABRECTA and MATE1 or MATE2K substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions, decrease the MATE1 or MATE2K substrate dosage in accordance with the approved prescribing information.
