Drug: carbidopa_levodopa

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Iron salts and dopamine D2 antagonists including metoclopramide: May reduce the effectiveness of DHIVY ( 7.2 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors The use of nonselective MAO inhibitors with DHIVY is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Discontinue use of any nonselective MAO inhibitors at least two weeks prior to initiating DHIVY. DHIVY may be administered concomitantly with the manufacturer's recommended dose of selective MAO-B inhibitors (e.g., rasagiline or selegiline HCl). Concomitant therapy with selegiline and carbidopa/levodopa may be associated with severe orthostatic hypotension not attributable to carbidopa/levodopa alone. 7.2 Dopamine D 2 Receptor Antagonists and Isoniazid Dopamine D 2 receptor antagonists (e.g., phenothiazines, butyrophenones, risperidone) and isoniazid may reduce the effectiveness of levodopa. Monitor patients taking these drugs with DHIVY for worsening Parkinson’s symptoms. 7.3 Iron Salts Iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts can form chelates with levodopa and carbidopa and can cause a reduction in the bioavailability of DHIVY. If iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts are co-administered with DHIVY, monitor patients for worsening Parkinson’s symptoms. 7.4 Antihypertensive Drugs Symptomatic postural hypotension occurred when carbidopa/levodopa was added to the treatment of a patient receiving antihypertensive drugs. Therefore, when therapy with DHIVY is started, dosage adjustment of the antihypertensive drug may be required. 7.5 Dopamine-Depleting Agents Use of DHIVY with dopamine-depleting agents (e.g., reserpine and tetrabenazine) or other drugs known to deplete monoamine stores is not recommended. 7.6 Metoclopramide Although metoclopramide may increase the bioavailability of levodopa by increasing gastric emptying, metoclopramide may also reduce effectiveness of levodopa by its dopamine receptor antagonistic properties.
