Drug: carospir

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Concomitant administration can lead to hyperkalemia ( 5.1 , 7.1 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) NSAIDs: May reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of CAROSPIR ( 7.3 ) Digoxin: CAROSPIR can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7.4 ) Cholestyramine: Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported with concomitant use ( 7.5 ) Acetylsalicylic Acid (ASA): ASA may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Drugs and Supplements Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant administration of CAROSPIR with potassium supplementation or drugs that can increase potassium may lead to severe hyperkalemia. In general, discontinue potassium supplementation in heart failure patients who start CAROSPIR [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Check serum potassium levels when ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy is altered in patients receiving CAROSPIR. Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include: ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers aldosterone blockers non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) heparin and low molecular weight heparin trimethoprim 7.2 Lithium Like other diuretics, CAROSPIR reduces the renal clearance of lithium, thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when CAROSPIR is coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) In some patients, the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effect of loop, potassium-sparing, and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when CAROSPIR and NSAIDs are used concomitantly, monitor closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Digoxin Spironolactone and its metabolites increase the apparent exposure to digoxin. In patients taking concomitant digoxin, measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating spironolactone using an assay that does not interact with spironolactone. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the dose by approximately 15-30% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Cholestyramine Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone concurrently with cholestyramine. 7.6 Acetylsalicylic Acid Acetylsalicylic acid may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. Therefore, when CAROSPIR and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, CAROSPIR may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.7 CYP2C8 and CYP3A Substrates Spironolactone is an irreversible inhibitor for CYP2C8 and CYP3A4/5 in vitro [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, spironolactone may increase the exposure of other coadministered drugs that are metabolized by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4/5. Dosage adjustments of the drugs metabolized by CYP2C8 (e.g., repaglinide) and CYP3A4/5 (e.g., midazolam, sirolimus and tacrolimus) may be necessary if they are given concurrently with spironolactone.
