Drug: cenobamate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Phenytoin: Gradually decrease phenytoin dosage by up to 50%. ( 7.1 ) Phenobarbital and Clobazam: Reduce dosage as needed when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. ( 7.1 ) Lamotrigine, Carbamazepine: Increase dosage as needed when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. ( 7.1 ) CYP2B6 and CYP3A Substrates: Increase dosage as needed when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. ( 7.1 ) CYP2C19 Substrates: Reduce dosage as needed when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. ( 7.1 ) Oral Contraceptives: Effectiveness of hormonal oral contraceptives may be reduced when administered concomitantly with XCOPRI. Women should use additional or alternative non-hormonal birth control. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effect of XCOPRI on Other Drugs Table 5 summarizes the effect of XCOPRI on other drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 5: Pharmacokinetic Drug Interactions Drug or Substrate Type Effect of XCOPRI on Drug or Substrate Clinical Recommendation Antiepileptic Drugs lamotrigine ↓ plasma concentrations Because of a potential for reduced efficacy of these drugs, increase the dosage of lamotrigine or carbamazepine, as needed, when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. carbamazepine ↓ plasma concentrations phenytoin ↑ plasma concentrations Because of a potential 2-fold increase in phenytoin levels, gradually decrease phenytoin dosage by up to 50% as XCOPRI is being titrated. phenobarbital ↑ plasma concentrations Because of a potential for an increase in the risk of adverse reactions from these drugs, consider a reduction in dosage of phenobarbital or clobazam, as clinically appropriate, when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. desmethylclobazam, the active metabolite of clobazam ↑ plasma concentrations CYP2B6 Substrates ↓ plasma concentrations Because of a potential for reduced efficacy of these drugs, increase the dosage of CYP2B6 or CYP3A4 substrates, as needed, when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. CYP3A Substrates ↓ plasma concentrations Oral contraceptives ↓ plasma concentrations Because of the potential for reduced efficacy of oral contraceptives, women should use additional or alternative non-hormonal birth control while taking XCOPRI. CYP2C19 Substrates ↑ plasma concentrations Because of a potential for an increase in the risk of adverse reactions from these drugs, consider a reduction in dosage of CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when used concomitantly with XCOPRI. 7.2 Drug that Shorten the QT Interval XCOPRI can shorten the QT interval; therefore, caution should be used when administering XCOPRI and other drugs that shorten the QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. 7.3 CNS Depressants and Alcohol Concomitant use of XCOPRI with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, may increase the risk of neurological adverse reactions, including sedation and somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] .
