Drug: chlordiazepoxide_hcl_and_clidinium_bromide

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride, a component of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules, and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules and opioids, and follow patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Oral Anticoagulants Although clinical studies have not established a cause and effect relationship, physicians should be aware that variable effects on blood coagulation have been reported very rarely in patients receiving oral anticoagulants and chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride, a component of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules. Pregnancy Risk Summary Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Neonates born to mothers using benzodiazepines during the later stages of pregnancy have been reported to experience symptoms of sedation and/or neonatal withdrawal (see WARNINGS , Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome and PRECAUTIONS , Clinical Considerations ). Available data from published observational studies of pregnant women exposed to benzodiazepines do not report a clear association with benzodiazepines and major birth defects (see Data) . Clidinium Bromide Over decades of use, there is an absence of published data on orally administered clidinium bromide in pregnant women, including an absence of any reports of a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression, hypotonia and sedation in neonates. Monitor neonates exposed to chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules, which contains a benzodiazepine (chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride), during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems. Monitor neonates exposed to chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal. Manage these neonates accordingly ( see WARNINGS , Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome ). Data Human Data Published data from observational studies on the use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy do not report a clear association with benzodiazepines and major birth defects. Although early studies reported an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide, there was no consistent pattern noted. In addition, the majority of more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, which were adjusted for confounding exposures to alcohol. Tobacco and other medications, have not confirmed these findings. Animal Data Oral daily doses of 2.5 mg/kg chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride with 1.25 mg/kg clidinium bromide or 25 mg/kg chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride with 12.5 mg/kg clidinium bromide (0.6 and 6.1 times, respectively, the maximum recommended clinical dose for both drugs, based on body surface area) were administered to rats in a reproduction study through two successive matings. In the first mating, no significant differences were noted between the control or the treated groups, with the exception of a slight decrease in the number of animals surviving during lactation among those receiving the highest dosage. In the second mating, similar results were obtained except for a slight decrease in the number of pregnant females and in the percentage of offspring surviving until weaning. No congenital anomalies were observed in both matings in either the control or treated groups. Nursing Mothers Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride There are no data on the presence of chlordiazepoxide in either human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. However, there are reports of sedation, poor feeding and poor weight gain in infants exposed to other benzodiazepines through breast milk. Reproduction studies in rats fed chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride, 10, 20 and 80 mg/kg daily (2.4, 4.8 and 19.4 times respectively, the maximum recommended clinical dose of 40 mg/day, based on body surface area), and bred through one or two matings showed no adverse effects on lactation of the dams. Clidinium Bromide There are no data on the presence of clidinium in either human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. As with other anticholinergic drugs, clidinium may cause suppression of lactation. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules. Infants exposed to chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide capsules through breast milk should be monitored for sedation, poor feeding and poor weight gain.
