Drug: cisatracurium_besylate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Succinylcholine : May decrease time to onset of maximum neuromuscular blockade ( 7.1 ) Inhalational anesthetics, antibiotics, local anesthetics, magnesium salts, procainamide, lithium, quinidine : May potentiate or prolong neuromuscular blockade action of cisatracurium besylate. Use peripheral nerve stimulator and monitor clinical signs of neuromuscular blockade. ( 5.8 , 7.1 ) Phenytoin and Carbamazepine : May shorten duration of neuromuscular blockade. Use peripheral nerve stimulator and monitor clinical signs of neuromuscular blockade. ( 5.9 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 4 displays clinically significant drug interactions with cisatracurium besylate. Table 4. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Cisatracurium Besylate * The use of peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of cisatracurium besylate, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration. † Examples: aminoglycosides, tetracyclines, bacitracin, polymyxins, lincomycin, clindamycin, colistin, sodium colistimethate Drug or Drug Class Clinical Implications* Succinylcholine The use of succinylcholine prior to cisatracurium besylate administration may decrease the time to onset of maximum neuromuscular blockade but has no effect on the duration of neuromuscular blockade. Inhalational Anesthetics Administration of inhalational anesthetics with nitrous oxide/oxygen for greater than 30 minutes to achieve 1.25 Minimum Alveolar Concentration (MAC) may prolong the duration of action of initial and maintenance doses of cisatracurium besylate. This may potentiate the neuromuscular blockade. Antibiotics† Local anesthetics Magnesium salts Procainamide Lithium Quinidine May prolong the neuromuscular blockade action of cisatracurium besylate. Phenytoin, Carbamazepine May increase resistance to the neuromuscular blockade action of cisatracurium besylate resulting in shorter durations of neuromuscular blockade and infusion rate requirements may be higher. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Cisatracurium Besylate In clinical studies, propofol had no effect on the duration of action or dosing requirements for cisatracurium besylate. Cisatracurium besylate is not compatible with propofol for Y-site administration.
