Drug: citalopram

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with CELEXA. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with CELEXA Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of SSRIs, including CELEXA, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention CELEXA is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of CELEXA with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of CELEXA alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: CELEXA is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of CELEXA with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of CELEXA alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of CELEXA with drugs that prolong the QT interval (CELEXA is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of CELEXA with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of CELEXA alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: The maximum recommended dosage of CELEXA is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of CELEXA and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during CELEXA initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of CELEXA and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of CELEXA and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of CELEXA and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . CYP2C19 Inhibitors: CELEXA 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7.1).
