Drug: clobazam

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Alcohol: Increases blood levels of clobazam by about 50% ( 7.2 ) Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6: Lower doses of these drugs may be required when used concomitantly with clobazam ( 7.3 ) Strong or Moderate CYP2C19 Inhibitors: Dosage adjustment of clobazam tablet may be necessary ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites, and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and follow patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.2 CNS Depressants and Alcohol Concomitant use of clobazam with other CNS depressants may increase the risk of sedation and somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Alcohol, as a CNS depressant, will interact with clobazam in a similar way and also increases clobazam’s maximum plasma exposure by approximately 50%. Therefore, caution patients or their caregivers against simultaneous use with other CNS depressant drugs or alcohol, and caution that the effects of other CNS depressant drugs or alcohol may be potentiated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.3 Effect of Clobazam Tablet on Other Drugs Hormonal Contraceptives Clobazam is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. As some hormonal contraceptives are metabolized by CYP3A4, their effectiveness may be diminished when given with clobazam. Additional non-hormonal forms of contraception are recommended when using clobazam [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clobazam inhibits CYP2D6. Dose adjustment of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 may be necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Effect of Other Drugs on Clobazam Tablet Strong and moderate inhibitors of CYP2C19 Strong and moderate inhibitors of CYP2C19 may result in increased exposure to N-desmethylclobazam, the active metabolite of clobazam. This may increase the risk of dose-related adverse reactions. Dosage adjustment of clobazam may be necessary when co-administered with strong CYP2C19 inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole, fluvoxamine, ticlopidine) or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors (e.g., omeprazole) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
