Drug: clonidine_hydrochloride_oral

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The interactions of JAVADIN with co-administration of other drugs have not been studied. The drug interaction data provided in this section is based on oral immediate-release clonidine formulations. Table 1 displays clinically important drug interactions with JAVADIN. Table 1: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with JAVADIN. Antihypertensive drugs Clinical Implication Concomitant use of antihypertensive drugs with clonidine potentiates the hypotensive effects of clonidine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Intervention Monitor blood pressure and heart rate, and adjust dosage of JAVADIN accordingly in patients treated concomitantly with antihypertensives CNS depressants Clinical Implication Concomitant use of CNS depressants with clonidine potentiates the sedating effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use of CNS depressants with JAVADIN. Drugs that affect sinus node function or AV node conduction (e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers, beta blockers) Clinical Implication Concomitant use of drugs that affect sinus node function or AV node conduction with clonidine potentiate bradycardia and risk of AV block [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use of drugs that affect sinus node function or AV node conduction with JAVADIN. Tricyclic antidepressants Clinical Implication Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with clonidine can increase blood pressure and may counteract the hypotensive effects of clonidine. Intervention Monitor blood pressure and adjust dosage of JAVADIN as needed. Sedating Drugs : Clonidine may potentiate the CNS-depressive effects of alcohol, barbiturates or other sedating drugs. ( 7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants: May reduce the hypotensive effect of clonidine. ( 7 ) Neuroleptics: May induce or exacerbate the orthostatic regulation disturbances (e.g., orthostatic hypotension, dizziness, fatigue). ( 7 ) Drugs Known to Affect Sinus Node Function or AV Nodal Conduction: Caution is warranted in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction (e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers and beta-blockers) due to a potential for additive effects such as bradycardia and AV block. ( 7 )
