Drug: cobicistat

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS TYBOST, in combination with atazanavir or darunavir, can alter the concentration of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A can alter the concentrations of TYBOST, atazanavir and darunavir. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. ( 4 , 5.3 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Potential Effect of Cobicistat (Coadministered with Atazanavir or Darunavir) on the Pharmacokinetics of Concomitant Drugs Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include p-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3. The plasma concentration of drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6, or are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, or OATP1B3 may be increased if those drugs are coadministered with TYBOST. Based on in vitro data, cobicistat is not expected to induce CYP1A2 or CYP2B6 and based on in vivo data, cobicistat is not expected to induce MDR1 or, in general, CYP3A to a clinically significant extent. The induction effect of cobicistat on CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or UGT1A1 is unknown, but is expected to be low based on CYP3A in vitro induction data. Coadministration of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated. Coadministration with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s). Coadministration with other CYP3A substrates may require a dose adjustment or additional monitoring as shown in Table 7 . 7.2 Potential Effect of Concomitant Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Cobicistat (Coadministered with Atazanavir or Darunavir) Cobicistat is metabolized by CYP3A, and to a minor extent, by CYP2D6. Atazanavir and darunavir are also metabolized by CYP3A. Coadministration of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir in combination with drugs that induce CYP3A activity have the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of cobicistat, atazanavir, and darunavir, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance (see Table 7 ). Coadministration of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir in combination with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may further increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, atazanavir, and darunavir (see Table 7 ). 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Interactions Coadministration of TYBOST with fosamprenavir, saquinavir, or tipranavir is not recommended because pharmacokinetic data are not available to provide appropriate dosing recommendations. Use of TYBOST with lopinavir is not recommended because lopinavir is co-formulated with ritonavir. Table 7 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of the interaction and potential for serious adverse events or loss of therapeutic effect [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In Table 7 , if not specifically stated, the drug interaction information applies to both coadministered agents: TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In addition to the drug interactions noted in Table 7 , TYBOST is not recommended for use in combination with fixed-dose combination tablets that contain cobicistat, lopinavir/ritonavir or regimens containing ritonavir, or in combination with more than one antiretroviral agent that requires pharmacokinetic enhancement [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Evaluate whether dosing adjustments of concomitant medications or coadministered antiretroviral drugs are necessary in: Patients on a stable concomitant medication who initiate or switch to a TYBOST-containing regimen Patients on a TYBOST-containing regimen who initiate a new concomitant medication Patients initiating a TYBOST-containing regimen and a new concomitant medication simultaneously Under these circumstances, also monitor for adverse events and/or monitor concentrations of concomitant medications if appropriate. No dose adjustment is required when TDF or rilpivirine are coadministered with TYBOST and atazanavir or darunavir. Table 7 Established and Other Potentially Significant This table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Potential Effect ↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease, ↔ = No change Clinical Comment Antiretroviral Agents: Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (NRTI) tenofovir alafenamide ↔tenofovir alafenamide ↑tenofovir alafenamide TYBOST coadministered with darunavir in pediatric patients weighing at least 15 kg: No dose adjustment. TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir in pediatric patients weighing 14 to less than 35 kg: Coadministration is not recommended [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Antiretroviral Agents: Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz ↓ cobicistat ↓ darunavir ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with darunavir: Coadministration of darunavir and TYBOST with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir: In treatment-naïve adult patients: Atazanavir 400 mg with TYBOST 150 mg should be coadministered once daily as a single dose with food, and efavirenz 600 mg should be administered once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. In treatment-experienced adult patients: Coadministration of atazanavir and TYBOST with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown ↓ atazanavir Coadministration with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir or darunavir. nevirapine ↓ atazanavir ↑ nevirapine ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown Contraindicated with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir only: Coadministration of atazanavir with nevirapine is contraindicated due to potential for loss of atazanavir therapeutic effect and development of resistance, and potential for nevirapine-associated adverse reactions. TYBOST coadministered with darunavir: TYBOST coadministration with nevirapine and darunavir is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonists maraviroc ↑ maraviroc Maraviroc is a substrate of CYP3A. When coadministering with maraviroc, adult patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. Antiretroviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors indinavir Contraindicated with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir only: Both atazanavir and indinavir are associated with indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinemia. Other Agents: Alpha 1- adrenoreceptor antagonist: alfuzosin ↑ alfuzosin Coadministration with alfuzosin is contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as hypotension. Antianginal ranolazine ↑ ranolazine Coadministration with ranolazine is contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions. Antacids: e.g., aluminum and magnesium hydroxide (please also see H2-Receptor Antagonists and Proton Pump Inhibitors below) ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir: With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. Antiarrhythmics: dronedarone ↑ dronedarone Coadministration with dronedarone is contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias. digoxin ↑ digoxin When coadministering with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. Other antiarrhythmics: e.g., amiodarone disopyramide flecainide mexiletine propafenone quinidine ↑ antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin ↑ clarithromycin ↑ erythromycin ↑ telithromycin ↑ cobicistat ↑ atazanavir ↑ darunavir Consider alternative antibiotics with concomitant use of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. Anticancer Agents: irinotecan ↑ irinotecan Contraindicated with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir only: Coadministration of atazanavir with irinotecan is contraindicated due to potential for increased irinotecan toxicity. dasatinib nilotinib vinblastine vincristine ↑ anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulants: Direct Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) apixaban rivaroxaban betrixaban dabigatran edoxaban ↑ apixaban TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Due to potentially increased bleeding risk, dosing recommendations for coadministration of apixaban with TYBOST depends on the apixaban dose. Refer to apixaban dosing instructions for coadministration with strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors in apixaban prescribing information. ↑ rivaroxaban Coadministration of rivaroxaban with TYBOST is not recommended because it may lead to an increased bleeding risk. atazanavir: ↑ betrixaban ↑ dabigatran ↑ edoxaban TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir: Due to potentially increased bleeding risk, dosing recommendations for coadministration of betrixaban, dabigatran, or edoxaban with a P-gp inhibitor such as TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir depends on DOAC indication and renal function. Refer to DOAC dosing instructions for coadministration with P-gp inhibitors in DOAC prescribing information. darunavir: ↔ betrixaban ↔ dabigatran ↔ edoxaban TYBOST coadministered with darunavir: No dose adjustment. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) upon coadministration of TYBOST with warfarin. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin ↓ atazanavir ↓ darunavir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration with carbamazepine, phenobarbital, or phenytoin is contraindicated due to potential for loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Anticonvulsants with CYP3A induction effects that are NOT contraindicated e.g., eslicarbazepine, oxcarbazepine ↓ cobicistat ↓ atazanavir darunavir: effect unknown Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A e.g., clonazepam ↑ clonazepam Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) e.g., paroxetine Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) e.g., amitriptyline desipramine imipramine nortriptyline Other antidepressants: trazodone SSRIs: effects unknown ↑ TCAs ↑ trazodone When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, including using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Antifungals: itraconazole ketoconazole ↑ itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration with itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole Voriconazole: effects unknown ↑ cobicistat ↑ atazanavir ↑ darunavir Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Anti-gout: colchicine ↑ colchicine Coadministration with colchicine is contraindicated in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions. Treatment of gout flares in adult patients – coadministration of colchicine: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) x 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares in adult patients – coadministration of colchicine: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever in adult patients – coadministration of colchicine: Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterial: rifampin ↓ atazanavir ↓ darunavir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration with rifampin is contraindicated due to potential for loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. rifabutin ↑ rifabutin cobicistat: effects unknown darunavir: effects unknown atazanavir: effects unknown The recommended adult dosage regimen for rifabutin is 150 mg every other day. Monitor for rifabutin associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis. Antiplatelets: ticagrelor ↑ ticagrelor Coadministration with ticagrelor is not recommended. clopidogrel ↓ clopidogrel active metabolite Coadministration with clopidogrel is not recommended due to potential reduction of the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. prasugrel ↔ prasugrel active metabolite No dose adjustment is needed when prasugrel is co-administered with TYBOST. Antipsychotics: lurasidone ↑ lurasidone Coadministration with lurasidone is contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions. pimozide ↑ pimozide Coadministration with pimozide is contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias. quetiapine ↑ quetiapine Initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposure. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Other antipsychotics: e.g., perphenazine risperidone thioridazine ↑ antipsychotic A decrease in the dose of antipsychotics that are metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be needed upon coadministration. Beta-Blockers: e.g., metoprolol carvedilol timolol ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6. Calcium Channel Blockers: e.g., amlodipine diltiazem felodipine nifedipine verapamil ↑ calcium channel blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. Corticosteroids: e.g., betamethasone budesonide ciclesonide dexamethasone fluticasone methylprednisolone mometasone triamcinolone ↓ cobicistat ↓ atazanavir ↓ darunavir ↑ corticosteroids Coadministration with oral dexamethasone or other systemic corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir or darunavir. Consider alternative corticosteroids. Coadministration with corticosteroids (all routes of administration) whose exposures are significantly increased by strong CYP3A inhibitors can increase the risk for Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Alternative corticosteroids including beclomethasone, prednisone, and prednisolone (whose PK and/or PD are less affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors relative to other studied steroids) should be considered, particularly for long-term use . Endothelin Receptor Antagonists: bosentan ↑ bosentan ↓ cobicistat ↓ darunavir ↓ atazanavir Initiation of bosentan in adult patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: In patients who have been receiving TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir in adult patients taking bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. After at least 10 days following the initiation of TYBOST combined with atazanavir or darunavir, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Switching from ritonavir to TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Maintain bosentan dose. Ergot Derivatives: dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, methylergonovine ↑ ergot derivatives Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as acute ergot toxicity characterized by peripheral vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues. H 2 -Receptor Antagonists: e.g., famotidine ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir in adult patients: Administer atazanavir/TYBOST either at the same time or a minimum of 10 hours after administering H 2 -receptor antagonists. The dose of the H 2 -receptor antagonist should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naïve adult patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced adult patients. TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir and TDF in adult patients: Treatment-experienced adult patients: The recommended once daily dosage regimen is TYBOST 150 mg coadministered with atazanavir 400 mg with concomitant use of H 2 -receptor antagonists and tenofovir DF. Herbal Products: St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) ↓ atazanavir ↓ darunavir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Hormonal Contraceptives: Additional or alternative non-hormonal forms of contraception should be considered when estrogen based contraceptives are coadministered with TYBOST and atazanavir or darunavir. drospirenone/ethinyl estradiol atazanavir: ↑ drospirenone Contraindicated with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir only: Coadministration of atazanavir with drospirenone is contraindicated due to potential for drospirenone-associated hyperkalemia. darunavir: ↑ drospirenone ↓ ethinyl estradiol TYBOST coadministered with darunavir: For coadministration with drospirenone, clinical monitoring is recommended due to the potential for hyperkalemia. Other progestin/estrogen contraceptives progestin: effects unknown estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of TYBOST and atazanavir or darunavir with other hormonal contraceptives. Immuno-suppressants: cyclosporine everolimus sirolimus tacrolimus ↑ immuno-suppressants These immunosuppressant agents are metabolized by CYP3A. Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended if coadministered. Inhaled Beta Agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended and may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Lipid-modifying Agents: HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: lovastatin simvastatin ↑ lovastatin ↑ simvastatin Coadministration with lovastatin or simvastatin is contraindicated due to potential for serious reactions such as myopathy including rhabdomyolysis. Other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: e.g., atorvastatin rosuvastatin ↑ HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors Coadministration of atazanavir and TYBOST with atorvastatin is not recommended. For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety (e.g., myopathy). Dosage recommendations with atorvastatin or rosuvastatin are as follows. TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir in adult patients: Rosuvastatin dosage should not exceed 10 mg TYBOST coadministered with darunavir in adult patients: Atorvastatin dosage should not exceed 20 mg Rosuvastatin dosage should not exceed 20 mg Other lipid-modifying agents: lomitapide ↑ lomitapide Coadministration with lomitapide is contraindicated due to potential for markedly increased transaminases. Narcotic Analgesics For treatment of opioid dependence: buprenorphine buprenorphine/ naloxone methadone buprenorphine or buprenorphine/ naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone in patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. fentanyl ↑ fentanyl Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended with coadministration. tramadol ↑ tramadol A dose decrease may be needed for tramadol with concomitant use. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) Inhibitors: avanafil sildenafil tadalafil vardenafil ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor associated adverse events, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of sildenafil is contraindicated when used for the treatment of PAH due to potential for sildenafil-associated adverse reactions (which include visual disturbances, hypotension, priapism, and syncope) . The following dose adjustments are recommended for tadalafil concomitant use: Initiation of tadalafil in adult patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: In adult patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir for at least 1 week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir in adult patients taking tadalafil: Avoid use of tadalafil during the initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. After at least one week following initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Patients switching from ritonavir to TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Maintain tadalafil dose. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction in adult patients: Sildenafil at a single dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, tadalafil at a single dose not exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours, or vardenafil at a single dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours can be used with increased monitoring for PDE-5 inhibitor associated adverse events. Proton-pump Inhibitors (PPIs) e.g., omeprazole ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir in adult patients: In treatment-naïve adult patients, administer TYBOST with atazanavir a minimum of 12 hours after administering PPIs. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced adult patients, coadministration with PPIs, with or without tenofovir, is not recommended. Sedative/Hypnotics: midazolam (oral), triazolam ↑ midazolam ↑ triazolam Coadministration with triazolam or oral administered midazolam is contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as prolonged or increased sedation or respiratory depression. Triazolam and orally administered midazolam are extensively metabolized by CYP3A. Coadministration of triazolam or orally administered midazolam with TYBOST may cause large increases in the concentrations of these benzodiazepines. Other benzodiazepines: e.g., parenterally administered midazolam clorazepate diazepam estazolam flurazepam ↑ sedatives/hypnotics Coadministration with parenteral midazolam may increase plasma concentrations of midazolam. Coadministration should be done in a setting that ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosing reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. buspirone zolpidem With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended.
