Drug: cocaine_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Disulfiram : Increases plasma cocaine exposure. Avoid using COCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE nasal solution in patients taking disulfiram. ( 7 ) • Epinephrine, Phenylephrine : There have been reports of myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias with concomitant use during nasal surgery. Avoid use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with COCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE nasal solution. If concomitant use is unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. ( 5.3 , 7 ) 7.1 Disulfiram Published literature reported that disulfiram treatment increased plasma cocaine exposure, including both AUC and Cmax, by several fold after acute intranasal cocaine administration. Other literature reported that co-administration of disulfiram increased AUC of plasma cocaine by several fold after intravenous cocaine administration [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Avoid using COCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE nasal solution in patients taking disulfiram. Consider using other local anesthetic agents. 7.2 Epinephrine, Phenylephrine There are reports in the published literature of myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine with epinephrine and phenylephrine during nasal and sinus surgery. Avoid use of additional vasoconstrictor agents such as epinephrine and phenylephrine with COCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE nasal solution during nasal and sinus surgery. If concomitant use is unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 7.3 Inhibitors of plasma cholinesterase (pseudocholinesterase) Cocaine has been described in literature to be primarily metabolized and inactivated by non-enzymatic ester hydrolysis and hepatic carboxylesterase, and also by plasma cholinesterase, hepatic carboxylesterase, and CYP3A4 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The pharmacokinetics of COCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE nasal solution in patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase activity has not been studied. Plasma cholinesterase activity may be decreased by chronic administration of certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors, oral contraceptives, or glucocorticoids. It may also be diminished by administration of irreversible plasma cholinesterase inhibitors such as echothiophate, organophosphate insecticides, and certain antineoplastic agents. Patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase (pseudocholinesterase) activity may have reduced clearance and increased exposure of plasma cocaine after administration of COCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE nasal solution Since cocaine is metabolized by multiple enzymes, the effect of reduced plasma cholinesterase activity on cocaine exposure may be limited. No dosage adjustment of COCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE nasal solution is needed in patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase. Monitor patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase activity for adverse reactions such as headache, epistaxis, and clinically- relevant increases in heart rate or blood pressure.
