Drug: cocaine_hydrochloride_nasal

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Epinephrine, Phenylephrine: There have been reports of myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias with concomitant use during nasal surgery. Avoid use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine hydrochloride. If concomitant use is unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. ( 5.3 , 7.2 ) Disulfiram: Disulfiram treatment increases plasma cocaine exposure. Avoid using cocaine hydrochloride in patients taking disulfiram. ( 7.3 ) CNS stimulants: Concomitant administration may result in nervousness, irritability, or possibly convulsions. ( 7.1 ) Cholinesterase inhibitors: Concomitant administration may increase the risk of cocaine toxicity. ( 7.4 ) Sympathomimetics, postganglionic blocking agents, and tricyclic antidepressants: Concomitant administration may increase the risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions. ( 7.5 , 7.6 ) Monoamine-oxidase inhibitors: Concomitant administration may potentiate the effects and toxicity of monoamine-oxidase inhibitors. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Central Nervous System Stimulants Concurrent use of other central nervous system stimulants with cocaine may result in excessive stimulation, leading to nervousness, irritability, or possibly convulsions, or cardiac arrhythmias. 7.2 Epinephrine, Phenylephrine There are reports in the published literature of myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine with epinephrine and phenylephrine during nasal and sinus surgery. Avoid use of additional vasoconstrictor agents such as epinephrine and phenylephrine with cocaine hydrochloride during nasal and sinus surgery. If concomitant use is unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. 7.3 Disulfiram Published literature reported that disulfiram treatment increased plasma cocaine exposure (AUC and C max ), by several folds after acute intranasal cocaine administration. Another literature reported that co-administration of disulfiram increased AUC of plasma cocaine by several folds after intravenous cocaine administration [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Avoid using cocaine hydrochloride in patients taking disulfiram. Consider using other local anesthesia. 7.4 Cholinesterase Inhibitors Cocaine has been described in literature to be primarily metabolized and inactivated by non-enzymatic ester hydrolysis and hepatic carboxylesterase, and also by plasma cholinesterase, hepatic carboxylesterase, and CYP3A4. The pharmacokinetics of cocaine hydrochloride in patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase activity has not been studied. Plasma cholinesterase activity may be decreased by chronic administration of certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors, oral contraceptives, glucocorticoids, antimyasthenics (neostigmine), cyclophosphamide, and possibly thiotepa. It may also be diminished by administration of irreversible plasma cholinesterase inhibitors such as echothiophate, organophosphate insecticides, and certain antineoplastic agents. Patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase (pseudocholinesterase) activity may have reduced clearance and increased exposure of plasma cocaine after administration of cocaine hydrochloride. Because cocaine is metabolized by multiple enzymes, the effect of reduced plasma cholinesterase activity on cocaine exposure may be limited. No dosage adjustment of cocaine hydrochloride is needed in patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase. Monitor patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase activity for adverse reactions such as clinically-relevant increases in heart rate or blood pressure. 7.5 Postganglionic Blocking Agents Agents such as reserpine potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation; concurrent use may increase the risk of hypertension and cardiac arrhythmias that may be life-threatening. 7.6 Tricyclic Antidepressants Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the activity of the sympathetic nervous system, which may also be increased by administration of cocaine hydrochloride. 7.7 Monoamine-Oxidase Inhibitors Cocaine hydrochloride may potentiate the effects and toxicity of MAO inhibitors.
