Drug: colesevelam_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use with colesevelam hydrochloride may decrease the exposure of the following drugs: Drugs with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., cyclosporine), phenytoin, thyroid hormone replacement therapy, warfarin, oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone, olmesartan medoxomil, and sulfonylureas (glimepiride, glipizide, glyburide). Administer these drugs 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. For patients on warfarin, monitor International Normalized Ratio (INR) frequently during initiation then periodically (7.1) . Concomitant use with colesevelam hydrochloride may increase the exposure of the following drugs: Metformin extended release. Monitor patients' glycemic control (7.2) . 7.1 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Drug Interactions that Decrease the Exposure of the Concomitant Medication Table 4 includes a list of drugs that decrease exposure of the concomitant medication when administered concomitantly with colesevelam hydrochloride and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Drug Interactions that Decrease the Exposure of the Concomitant Medication Drugs with a Narrow Therapeutic Index Clinical Impact: Concomitant use with colesevelam hydrochloride may decrease the exposure of the narrow therapeutic index drug. In vivo drug interactions studies showed a decrease in exposure of cyclosporine when coadministered with colesevelam hydrochloride [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )]. Intervention: Administer the narrow therapeutic index drug at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. Monitor drug levels when appropriate. Examples: Cyclosporine Phenytoin Clinical Impact: There have been postmarketing reports of increased seizure activity or decreased phenytoin levels in patients receiving phenytoin [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Intervention: Administer phenytoin 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy Clinical Impact: In vivo drug interactions studies showed a decrease in exposure of levothyroxine when coadministered with colesevelam hydrochloride [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There have been postmarketing reports of elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in patients receiving thyroid hormone replacement therapy [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Intervention: Administer thyroid hormone replacement therapy 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. Warfarin Clinical Impact: There have been postmarketing reports of reduced INR in patients receiving warfarin therapy [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Intervention: Monitor INR frequently during colesevelam hydrochloride initiation then periodically thereafter. Oral Contraceptives Containing Ethinyl Estradiol and Norethindrone Clinical Impact: In vivo drug interactions studies showed a decrease in exposure of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone when coadministered with colesevelam hydrochloride [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Administer oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. Olmesartan Medoxomil Clinical Impact: In vivo drug interactions studies showed a decrease in olmesartan medoxomil when coadministered with colesevelam hydrochloride [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Administer olmesartan medoxomil 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. Sulfonylureas Clinical Impact: In vivo drug interactions studies showed a decrease in sulfonylureas when coadministered with colesevelam hydrochloride [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Administer sulfonylureas 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. Examples: Glimepiride, glipizide, and glyburide Oral Vitamin Supplements Clinical Impact: Colesevelam hydrochloride may decrease the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Intervention: Patients on oral vitamin supplementation should take their vitamins at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride. 7.2 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Drug Interactions that Increase the Exposure of the Concomitant Medication Table 5 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Drug Interactions that Increase the Exposure of the Concomitant Medication Metformin Extended-Release (ER) Clinical Impact: In vivo drug interactions studies showed an increase in metformin extended release (ER) when coadministered with colesevelam hydrochloride [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Monitor patients' glycemic control.
