Drug: crizotinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A Inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use. ( 2.9 , 7.1 ) • Strong CYP3A Inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • CYP3A Substrates: Avoid concomitant use with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on XALKORI Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of crizotinib with strong CYP3A inhibitors increases crizotinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of XALKORI. Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors. If concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce the XALKORI dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) ] . Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice which may also increase plasma concentrations of crizotinib. Use caution with concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Strong CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of crizotinib with strong CYP3A inducers decreases crizotinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may decrease the efficacy of XALKORI. Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers. 7.2 Effect of XALKORI on Other Drugs CYP3A Substrates Concomitant use of crizotinib increases plasma concentrations of CYP3A substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates. Avoid concomitant use of XALKORI with CYP3A substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. If concomitant use of XALKORI is unavoidable, decrease the CYP3A substrate dosage in accordance with approved product labeling. 7.3 Drugs That Prolong the QT Interval XALKORI can prolong the QT/QTc interval. Avoid concomitant use of XALKORI with drugs that prolong the QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.4 Drugs That Cause Bradycardia XALKORI can cause bradycardia. Avoid concomitant use of XALKORI with drugs that cause bradycardia (e.g., beta-blockers, non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, clonidine, and digoxin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] .
