Drug: cyclophosphamide_injection,_solution

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Cyclophosphamide Exposure Protease Inhibitors Cyclophosphamide is a pro-drug that is activated by cytochrome P450s [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant use of protease inhibitors may increase the concentration of cytotoxic metabolites. Use of protease inhibitor-based regimens was found to be associated with a higher Incidence of infections and neutropenia in patients receiving cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and etoposide (CDE) than use of a Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor-based regimen. 7.2 Drugs that Can Potentiate Cyclophosphamide Toxicities Combined or sequential use of Cyclophosphamide Injection and other drugs or agents with similar toxicities to Cyclophosphamide Injection and can potentiate these effects and are listed in Table 2 . Table 2: Drugs that Can Potentiate Cyclophosphamide Toxicities Toxicity Drug or other treatment Increased hematotoxicity and/or immunosuppression • ACE inhibitors: ACE inhibitors can cause leukopenia. • Natalizumab • Paclitaxel: Increased hematotoxicity has been reported when cyclophosphamide was administered after paclitaxel infusion. • Thiazide diuretics • Zidovudine Increased cardiotoxicity • Anthracyclines • Cytarabine • Pentostatin • Radiation therapy of the cardiac region • Trastuzumab Increased pulmonary toxicity • Amiodarone • G-CSF, GM-CSF (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor) Increased nephrotoxicity • Amphotericin B • Indomethacin: Acute water intoxication has been reported with concomitant use of indomethacin Increase in other toxicities: • Azathioprine: Increased risk of hepatotoxicity (liver necrosis) • Busulfan: Increased incidence of hepatic veno-occlusive disease and mucositis has been reported. • Protease inhibitors: Increased incidence of mucositis Increased risk of hemorrhagic cystitis • Radiation treatment: Increased risk of hemorrhagic cystitis may result from a combined effect of cyclophosphamide and past or concomitant radiation treatment. 7.3 Effect of Cyclophosphamide With Other Drugs Etanercept A higher incidence of non-cutaneous malignant solid tumors in patients with Wegener’s granulomatosis occurred with the addition of etanercept to cyclophosphamide treatment. Metronidazole Acute encephalopathy has been reported in a patient receiving cyclophosphamide and metronidazole. In an animal study, the combination of cyclophosphamide with metronidazole was associated with increased cyclophosphamide toxicity. Tamoxifen Concomitant use of tamoxifen and chemotherapy may increase the risk of thromboembolic complications. Coumarins Both increased and decreased warfarin effect have been reported in patients receiving warfarin and cyclophosphamide. Cyclosporine Lower serum concentrations of cyclosporine have been observed in patients receiving a combination of cyclophosphamide and cyclosporine than in patients receiving only cyclosporine. This interaction may result in an increased incidence of graft-versus-host disease. Depolarizing muscle relaxants If a patient has been treated with cyclophosphamide within 10 days of general anesthesia, alert the anesthesiologist. Cyclophosphamide treatment causes a marked and persistent inhibition of cholinesterase activity. Prolonged apnea may occur with concurrent depolarizing muscle relaxants (e.g., succinylcholine).
