Drug: cyclophosphamide_for_injection

=== Drug Interactions ===
7. DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Cyclophosphamide Exposure Protease Inhibitors Concomitant use of protease inhibitors may increase the concentration of cytotoxic metabolites and may enhance the toxicities of cyclophosphamide, including higher incidence of infections, neutropenia, and mucositis. Monitor for increased toxicities in patients receiving protease inhibitors. 7.2 Drugs That Potentiate Cyclophosphamide Toxicities Radiation therapy or drugs with similar toxicities to Cyclophosphamide for Injection can potentiate toxicities for cyclophosphamide. Monitor for increased toxicities in patients receiving radiation therapy or drugs known to cause: • Myelosuppression and/or immunosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] • Nephrotoxicity including hemorrhagic cystitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] • Cardiotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] • Pulmonary toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] • Secondary malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity including liver necrosis and VOD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] 7.3 Effect of Cyclophosphamide on Other Drugs Metronidazole Acute encephalopathy has been reported in a patient receiving cyclophosphamide and metronidazole. Monitor for neurologic toxicities in patients receiving metronidazole. Tamoxifen Concomitant use of tamoxifen and a cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimen may increase the risk of thromboembolic complications. Monitor for signs and symptoms of thromboembolic events in patients receiving tamoxifen. Coumarins Both increased and decreased warfarin effect have been reported in patients receiving warfarin and cyclophosphamide. Monitor anticoagulant activity closely in patients receiving warfarin or other coumarins. Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of cyclophosphamide may decrease serum concentrations of cyclosporine. This interaction may result in an increased incidence of graft-versus-host disease. Monitor for signs and symptoms of graft-versus-host disease in patients receiving cyclosporine. Depolarizing muscle relaxants If a patient has been treated with cyclophosphamide within 10 days of general anesthesia, alert the anesthesiologist. Cyclophosphamide causes a marked and persistent inhibition of cholinesterase activity. Prolonged apnea may occur with concurrent depolarizing muscle relaxants (e.g., succinylcholine).
7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Cyclophosphamide Exposure Protease Inhibitors Concomitant use of protease inhibitors may increase the concentration of cytotoxic metabolites and may enhance the toxicities of cyclophosphamide, including higher incidence of infections, neutropenia, and mucositis. Monitor for increased toxicities in patients receiving protease inhibitors.
