Drug: dapagliflozin_and_saxagliptin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions with QTERN Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A4/5 Enzymes Clinical Impact Ketoconazole significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Similar significant increases in plasma concentrations of saxagliptin are anticipated with other strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors (e.g., atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, and telithromycin). Intervention Do not coadminister QTERN with strong cytochrome P450 3A4/5 inhibitors [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.4 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ] . Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia may be increased when QTERN is used concomitantly with insulin or insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylurea) [see WARNINGS AND PRECUATIONS (5.6) ] . Intervention Concomitant use may require lower doses of insulin or the insulin secretagogue to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during QTERN initiation and dosage changes. Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5‑anhydroglucitol (1,5‑AG) Assay Clinical Impact Measurements of 1,5‑AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5‑AG assay is not recommended. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. • Strong CYP3A4/5 Inhibitors (e.g., Ketoconazole): Do not coadminister QTERN with strong cytochrome P450 3A4/5 inhibitors. ( 7) • See full prescribing information for additional drug interactions and information on interference of QTERN with laboratory tests. ( 7 )
