Drug: dapagliflozin_and_metformin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6: Clinically Relevant Interactions with XIGDUO XR Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with XIGDUO XR may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Intervention Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors, such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Alcohol Clinical Impact Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Intervention Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving XIGDUO XR. Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia may be increased when XIGDUO XR is used concomitantly with insulin or insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylurea) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Intervention Concomitant use may require lower doses of insulin or the insulin secretagogue to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These medications include thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. Intervention When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving XIGDUO XR, observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving XIGDUO XR, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during XIGDUO XR initiation and dosage changes. Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) Assay Clinical Impact Measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. (7) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider benefits and risks of concomitant use. (7) • See full prescribing information for additional drug interactions and information on interference of XIGDUO XR with laboratory tests. ( 7 )
