Drug: daspone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with dapsone gel, 7.5%. Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) increases the systemic level of dapsone and its metabolites (7.1) . Topical benzoyl peroxide used at the same time as dapsone gel, 7.5% may result in temporary local yellow or orange skin discoloration (7.2) . 7.1 Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole A drug-drug interaction study evaluated the effect of the use of dapsone gel, 5% in combination with double strength (160 mg/800 mg) trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX). During co-administration, systemic levels of TMP and SMX were essentially unchanged, however, levels of dapsone and its metabolites increased in the presence of TMP/SMX. The systemic exposure from dapsone gel, 7.5% is expected to be about 1% of that from the 100 mg oral dose, even when co-administered with TMP/SMX. 7.2 Topical Benzoyl Peroxide Topical application of dapsone gel followed by benzoyl peroxide in patients with acne vulgaris may result in a temporary local yellow or orange discoloration of the skin and facial hair. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Oral Dapsone Certain concomitant medications (such as rifampin, anticonvulsants, St. John’s wort) may increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine, a metabolite of dapsone associated with hemolysis. With oral dapsone treatment, folic acid antagonists such as pyrimethamine have been noted to possibly increase the likelihood of hematologic reactions. 7.4 Concomitant Use with Drugs that Induce Methemoglobinemia Concomitant use of dapsone gel, 7.5% with drugs that induce methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides, acetaminophen, acetanilide, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, dapsone, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, pamaquine, para‐aminosalicylic acid, phenacetin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine, and quinine may increase the risk for developing methemoglobinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .
