Drug: deferasirox_oral

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Do not take deferasirox with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. ( 7.1 ) Deferasirox increases the exposure of repaglinide. Consider repaglinide dose reduction and monitor blood glucose levels. ( 7.3 ) Avoid the use of deferasirox with theophylline as theophylline levels could be increased. ( 7.4 ) Deferasirox increases exposure of busulfan. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan, as needed. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Aluminum-Containing Antacid Preparations The concomitant administration of deferasirox and aluminum-containing antacid preparations has not been formally studied. Although deferasirox has a lower affinity for aluminum than for iron, do not take deferasirox with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. 7.2 Agents Metabolized by CYP3A4 Deferasirox may induce CYP3A4 resulting in a decrease in CYP3A4 substrate concentration when these drugs are coadministered. Closely monitor patients for signs of reduced effectiveness when deferasirox is administered with drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alfentanil, aprepitant, budesonide, buspirone, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darifenacin, darunavir, dasatinib, dihydroergotamine, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, ergotamine, everolimus, felodipine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptive agents, indinavir, fluticasone, lopinavir, lovastatin, lurasidone, maraviroc, midazolam, nisoldipine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, saquinavir, sildenafil, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tolvaptan, tipranavir, triazolam, ticagrelor, and vardenafil) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Agents Metabolized by CYP2C8 Deferasirox inhibits CYP2C8 resulting in an increase in CYP2C8 substrate (e.g., repaglinide and paclitaxel) concentration when these drugs are coadministered. If deferasirox and repaglinide are used concomitantly, consider decreasing the dose of repaglinide and perform careful monitoring of blood glucose levels. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.4 Agents Metabolized by CYP1A2 Deferasirox inhibits CYP1A2 resulting in an increase in CYP1A2 substrate (e.g., alosetron, caffeine, duloxetine, melatonin, ramelteon, tacrine, theophylline, tizanidine) concentration when these drugs are coadministered. An increase in theophylline plasma concentrations could lead to clinically significant theophylline induced CNS or other adverse reactions. Avoid the concomitant use of theophylline or other CYP1A2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., tizanidine) with deferasirox. Monitor theophylline concentrations and consider theophylline dose modification if you must coadminister theophylline with deferasirox. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.5 Agents Inducing UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) Metabolism Deferasirox is a substrate of UGT1A1 and to a lesser extent UGT1A3. The concomitant use of deferasirox with strong UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) may result in a decrease in deferasirox efficacy due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. Avoid the concomitant use of strong UGT inducers with deferasirox. Consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox if you must coadminister these agents together [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.6 Bile Acid Sequestrants Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with deferasirox due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.7 Busulfan Increased exposure of busulfan was observed with concomitant use with deferasirox. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan as needed [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].
