Drug: desvenlafaxine_succinate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Desvenlafaxine Table 8: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Desvenlafaxine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SSRIs and SNRIs including desvenlafaxine with MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Concomitant use of desvenlafaxine is contraindicated: • With an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders or within 7 days of stopping treatment with desvenlafaxine. • Within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. • In a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. [see Dosage and Administration (2.7), Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of desvenlafaxine with other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when desvenlafaxine is used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of desvenlafaxine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Examples other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact Concomitant use of desvenlafaxine with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug may potentiate the risk of bleeding. This may be due to the effect of desvenlafaxine on the release of serotonin by platelets. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when desvenlafaxine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Examples NSAIDs, aspirin, and warfarin Drugs that are Primarily Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Concomitant use of desvenlafaxine increases C max and AUC of a drug primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention Original dose should be taken when co-administered with desvenlafaxine 100 mg or lower. Reduce the dose of these drugs by up to one-half if co-administered with 400 mg of desvenlafaxine. Examples desipramine, atomoxetine, dextromethorphan, metoprolol, nebivolol, perphenazine, tolterodine 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Desvenlafaxine Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment is required for drugs that are mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., midazolam), or for drugs that are metabolized by both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 (e.g., tamoxifen, aripiprazole), when administered concomitantly with desvenlafaxine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Alcohol A clinical study has shown that desvenlafaxine does not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by ethanol. However, as with all CNS-active drugs, patients should be advised to avoid alcohol consumption while taking desvenlafaxine. 7.4 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking desvenlafaxine. This is due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of desvenlafaxine therapy. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish desvenlafaxine from PCP and amphetamine.
