Drug: dexamethasone_sodium_phosphate,_bupivacaine_hydrochloride,_povidine_iodine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 5.13 , 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's hemodynamic status is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.3 Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine concomitantly with ergot-type oxytocic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.4 Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's blood pressure and heart rate is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . 7.7 Phenothiazines and Butyrophenones Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential.
