Drug: dextroamphetamine_saccharate,_amphetamine_aspartate_monohydrate,_dextroamphetami

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS MAOI antidepressants are contraindicated; MAOIs potentiate the effects of amphetamine. Do not administer dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules during or within 14 days after use of MAOI. ( 4 , 7.1 ) Alkalinizing agents (GI antacids and urinary): These agents increase blood levels of amphetamine. ( 7.1 ) Acidifying agents (GI and urinary): These agents reduce blood levels of amphetamine. ( 7.1 ) Adrenergic blockers, antihistamines, antihypertensives, phenobarbital, phenytoin, veratrum alkaloids, and ethosuximide: Effects may be reduced by amphetamines. ( 7.1 ) Tricyclic antidepressants, norepinephrine, and meperidine: Effects may be potentiated by amphetamines. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Clinically Important Interactions with Amphetamines Table 4: Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Amphetamines Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure. Intervention Do not administer dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules concomitantly or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI [see Contraindications (4) . Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules and serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules initiation or dosage increase. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules and the concomitant serotonergic drug(s) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Examples selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI), triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, St. John's Wort CYP2D6 Inhibitors Clinical Impact The concomitant use of dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules and CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase the exposure of dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules compared to the use of the drug alone and increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome particularly during dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules initiation and after a dosage increase. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules and the CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Overdosage (10) ] . Examples paroxetine and fluoxetine (also serotonergic drugs), quinidine, ritonavir Alkalinizing Agents Clinical Impact Increase blood levels and potentiate the action of amphetamine. Intervention Co-administration of dextroamphetamine saccharate, amphetamine aspartate monohydrate, dextroamphetamine sulfate, and amphetamine sulfate extended-release capsules and gastrointestinal or urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided. Examples Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents (e.g., sodium bicarbonate). Urinary alkalinizing agents (e.g. acetazolamide, some thiazides). Acidifying Agents Clinical Impact Lower blood levels and efficacy of amphetamines. Intervention Increase dose based on clinical response. Examples Gastrointestinal acidifying agents (e.g., guanethidine, reserpine, glutamic acid HCl, ascorbic acid). Urinary acidifying agents (e.g., ammonium chloride, sodium acid phosphate, methenamine salts). Tricyclic Antidepressants Clinical Impact May enhance the activity of tricyclic or sympathomimetic agents causing striking and sustained increases in the concentration of d-amphetamine in the brain; cardiovascular effects can be potentiated. Intervention Monitor frequently and adjust or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Examples desipramine, protriptyline Proton Pump Inhibitors Clinical Impact Time to maximum concentration (T max ) of amphetamine is decreased compared to when administered alone. Intervention Monitor patients for changes in clinical effect and adjust therapy based on clinical response. Examples Omeprazole
