Drug: dextroamphetamine_sulfate,_dextroamphetamine_saccharate,_amphetamine_aspartate_m

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Acidifying and Alkalinizing Agents: Agents that alter GI and urinary pH can alter blood levels of amphetamine. Acidifying agents (GI and urinary) decrease amphetamine blood levels, while alkalinizing agents (GI and urinary) increase amphetamine blood levels. Adjust MYDAYIS dosage accordingly. ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Amphetamines Table 3: Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Amphetamines Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact MAOI antidepressants slow amphetamine metabolism, increasing amphetamines effect on the release of norepinephrine and other monoamines from adrenergic nerve endings causing headaches and other signs of hypertensive crisis. Toxic neurological effects and malignant hyperpyrexia can occur, sometimes with fatal results. Intervention Do not administer MYDAYIS during or within 14 days following the administration of MAOI [see Contraindications (4) ] . Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of amphetamines and serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during MYDAYIS initiation or dosage increase. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue MYDAYIS and concomitant serotonergic drug(s) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Alkalinizing Agents Clinical Impact May increase exposure to amphetamine and exacerbate the action of amphetamine. Intervention Caution should be taken when coadministering MYDAYIS and gastrointestinal and urinary alkalinizing agents. Acidifying Agents Clinical Impact Lower blood levels and efficacy of amphetamines. Intervention Increase dose of MYDAYIS based on clinical response. Tricyclic Antidepressants Clinical Impact May enhance the activity of tricyclic or sympathomimetic agents causing sustained increases in the concentration of d-amphetamine in the brain; cardiovascular effects can be potentiated. Intervention Monitor frequently and adjust MYDAYIS dose or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Clinical Impact May increase the exposure of amphetamine. Intervention Start with lower doses and monitor frequently and adjust MYDAYIS dose or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Gastric pH Modulators Clinical Impact Potential change in shape of PK profile and exposure may occur. Intervention Monitor patients for changes in clinical effect and use alternative therapy based on clinical response. 7.2 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Amphetamines can cause a significant elevation in plasma corticosteroid levels. This increase is greatest in the evening. Amphetamines may interfere with urinary steroid determinations.
