Drug: dichlorphenamide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aspirin: anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, and coma have been reported with concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high-dose aspirin. The concomitant use of dichlorphenamide tablets and high-dose aspirin is contraindicated. Dichlorphenamide tablets should be used with caution in patients receiving lower doses of aspirin ( 4 , 5.2 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Aspirin and Other Salicylates Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, including dichlorphenamide, can cause metabolic acidosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 )] , which can increase the risk of salicylate toxicity. Anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, and coma have been reported with concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high-dose aspirin. Therefore, concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high-dose aspirin is contraindicated. Patients with concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and low-dose aspirin should be carefully monitored [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.2 Drugs that are Substrates of Organic Anion Transporter1 (OAT1) In vitro , dichlorphenamide is an inhibitor of OAT1 transporters. The concomitant administration of dichlorphenamide may increase the plasma exposures of OAT1 substrates. Use of dichlorphenamide with drugs that are sensitive to OAT1 inhibition (e.g., methotrexate, famotidine, oseltamivir) is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Drugs that Cause Hypokalemia The risk of hypokalemia is greater with coadministration of dichlorphenamide and other drugs that can cause hypokalemia (e.g., loop diuretics, thiazide diuretics, laxatives, antifungals, penicillins, and theophylline) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 7.4 Drugs that Cause Metabolic Acidosis Coadministration of dichlorphenamide and other drugs that can cause metabolic acidosis may increase the severity of the acidosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 7.5 Drugs that are Inhibitors of OAT1 or OAT3 An in vitro transporter study indicated that dichlorphenamide is a substrate of human transporters OAT1 and OAT3 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, signs of dichlorphenamide toxicity should be monitored when administered with OAT1 or OAT3 inhibitors.
