Drug: doravirine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for important potential drug-drug interactions. ( 4 , 5.1 , 7 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on PIFELTRO Co-administration of PIFELTRO with a CYP3A inducer decreases doravirine plasma concentrations, which may reduce PIFELTRO efficacy [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Co-administration of PIFELTRO and drugs that are inhibitors of CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of doravirine. Table 6 shows significant drug interactions with PIFELTRO. Table 6: Drug Interactions with PIFELTRO This table is not all inclusive. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment ↑ = increase, ↓ = decrease All other drug-drug interactions shown are anticipated based on the known metabolic and elimination pathways. Androgen Receptors enzalutamide ↓ doravirine Co-administration is contraindicated with enzalutamide. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended prior to initiation of PIFELTRO. Anticonvulsants carbamazepine oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin ↓ doravirine Co-administration is contraindicated with these anticonvulsants. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended prior to initiation of PIFELTRO. Antimycobacterials rifampin The interaction between PIFELTRO and the concomitant drug was evaluated in a clinical study. rifapentine ↓ doravirine Co-administration is contraindicated with rifampin or rifapentine . At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended prior to initiation of PIFELTRO. rifabutin ↓ doravirine Increase PIFELTRO dosage to one tablet twice daily when co-administered with rifabutin [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Cytotoxic Agents mitotane ↓ doravirine Co-administration is contraindicated with mitotane. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended prior to initiation of PIFELTRO. HIV Antiviral Agents efavirenz etravirine nevirapine ↓ doravirine Use with efavirenz, etravirine, or nevirapine is not recommended. Herbal Products St. John's wort ↓ doravirine Co-administration is contraindicated with St. John's wort. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended prior to initiation of PIFELTRO. No clinically significant changes in concentration were observed for doravirine when co-administered with the following agents: dolutegravir, TDF, lamivudine, elbasvir and grazoprevir, ledipasvir and sofosbuvir, ritonavir, ketoconazole, aluminum hydroxide/magnesium hydroxide/simethicone containing antacid, pantoprazole, and methadone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Effect of PIFELTRO on Other Drugs No clinically significant changes in concentration were observed for the following agents when co-administered with doravirine: dolutegravir, lamivudine, TDF, elbasvir and grazoprevir, ledipasvir and sofosbuvir, atorvastatin, an oral contraceptive containing ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel, metformin, methadone, and midazolam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
