Drug: doxylamine_succinate_and_pyridoxine_hydrochloride,_delayed_release_tablets_10_mg

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Severe drowsiness can occur when used in combination with alcohol or other sedating medications. (7) 7.1 Drug Interactions Use of doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride is contraindicated in women who are taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), which prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines. Concurrent use of alcohol and other CNS depressants (such as hypnotic sedatives and tranquilizers) with doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride is not recommended. 7.2 Drug-Food Interactions A food-effect study demonstrated that the delay in the onset of action of doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride may be further delayed, and a reduction in absorption may occur when tablets are taken with food [see Dosage and Administration (2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Therefore, doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride should be taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 7.3 False Positive Urine Tests for Methadone, Opiates and PCP False positive drug screens for methadone, opiates, and PCP can occur with doxylamine succinate/pyridoxine hydrochloride use. Confirmatory tests, such as Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS), should be used to confirm the identity of the substance in the event of a positive immunoassay result.
7.1 Drug Interactions Use of doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride is contraindicated in women who are taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), which prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines. Concurrent use of alcohol and other CNS depressants (such as hypnotic sedatives and tranquilizers) with doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride is not recommended.
7.2 Drug-Food Interactions A food-effect study demonstrated that the delay in the onset of action of doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride may be further delayed, and a reduction in absorption may occur when tablets are taken with food [see Dosage and Administration (2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Therefore, doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride should be taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water [see Dosage and Administration (2)].
7.3 False Positive Urine Tests for Methadone, Opiates and PCP False positive drug screens for methadone, opiates, and PCP can occur with doxylamine succinate/pyridoxine hydrochloride use. Confirmatory tests, such as Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS), should be used to confirm the identity of the substance in the event of a positive immunoassay result.
