Drug: drospirenone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes (for example, CYP3A4) may decrease the effectiveness of SLYND or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with SLYND. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of other Drugs on Hormonal Contraceptives Substances decreasing the systemic concentrations of hormonal contraceptives (HCs) and potentially diminishing the efficacy of HCs: Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the systemic concentrations of HCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of HCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of HCs include efavirenz, phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampicin, rifabutin, rufinamide, aprepitant, and products containing St. John's wort. Interactions between HCs and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Counsel females to use an alternative non-hormonal method of contraception or a back-up method when enzyme inducers are used with HCs, and to continue back-up non-hormonal contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability. Substances increasing the systemic concentrations of hormonal contraceptives (HCs): In a clinical drug-drug interaction study conducted in premenopausal females, once daily co-administration of drospirenone (DRSP) 3 mg/ethinyl estradiol (EE) 0.02 mg containing tablets with strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily for 10 days, resulted in a moderate increase of DRSP systemic exposure. 7.2 Influence of SLYND on other Medicinal Products Based on in vitro studies and in vivo interaction studies in female volunteers using omeprazole, simvastatin and midazolam as marker substrate, an interaction of drospirenone with the metabolism of other active substances is unlikely. Potential to increase serum potassium concentration: There is a potential for an increase in serum potassium concentration in females taking SLYND with other drugs that may increase serum potassium concentration (for example, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin-II receptor antagonists, potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplementation, heparin, aldosterone antagonists, and NSAIDS [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ].
