Drug: drospirenone_and_estetrol

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A Inducers: May lead to contraceptive failure and/or increase breakthrough bleeding. Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use is unavoidable, use an alternative or back-up contraceptive method during co-administration and up to 28 days after discontinuation of the CYP3A inducer. ( 7.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for additional clinically significant drug interactions ( 7 ). 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Hormonal Contraceptives Clinically significant drug interactions with other drugs that affect NEXTSTELLIS are presented in Table 5. Table 5. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions With Other Drugs that Affect NEXTSTELLIS CYP3A Inducers Clinical Effect DRSP is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inducers or certain moderate or weak CYP3A inducers may decrease DRSP exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may lead to contraceptive failure. Prevention or Management Strong CYP3A Inducers Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use is unavoidable, use an alternative contraceptive method (e.g., intrauterine system) or backup non-hormonal contraceptive method during coadministration and up to 28 days after discontinuation of the strong CYP3A inducer. Moderate and Weak CYP3A Inducers Use an alternative or backup contraceptive method during coadministration and up to 28 days after discontinuation of the CYP3A inducer, unless the Prescribing Information of the specific moderate or weak CYP3A inducer indicates there is no clinically significant interaction with NEXTSTELLIS. Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Effect DRSP is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor may increase DRSP exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of NEXTSTELLIS, including hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Prevention or Management Consider monitoring serum potassium concentration in patients who take a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor long-term and concomitantly with NEXTSTELLIS. Drugs that May Reduce the Absorption of NEXTSTELLIS Clinical Effect Concomitant use with drugs such as bile acid sequestrants may decrease the E4 and DRSP exposure, which may lead to contraceptive failure and/or an increase in breakthrough bleeding. Prevention or Management Separate time of administration of NEXTSTELLIS and the concomitant drug. Refer to the concomitant drug's Prescribing Information for additional information. 7.2 Effects of NEXTSTELLIS on Other Drugs Table 6 includes clinically significant drug interactions with NEXTSTELLIS that affect other drugs. Table 6. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions of NEXTSTELLIS on Other Drugs Anti-Diabetic Drugs Clinical Effect Concomitant use of NEXTSTELLIS may reduce the blood glucose lowering effect of anti-diabetic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) . Prevention or Management Increase frequency of glucose monitoring and increase anti-diabetic drug dosage, as needed, based on glucose levels. Drugs that may increase serum potassium concentration Clinical Effect There is a potential for an increase in serum potassium concentration in females taking NEXTSTELLIS with other drugs that may increase serum potassium concentration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Prevention or Management Monitor serum potassium concentration in females at increased risk for hyperkalemia. Lamotrigine Clinical Effect Concomitant use of NEXTSTELLIS may decrease lamotrigine exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce efficacy of lamotrigine. Prevention or Management Adjust lamotrigine dosage as recommended in its Prescribing Information based on NEXTSTELLIS initiation or discontinuation. Systemic Corticosteroids Clinical Effect Concomitant use of NEXTSTELLIS may increase the exposure of certain systemic corticosteroids, which may increase the risk of corticosteroid-related adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) . Prevention or Management Follow the recommendation for the corticosteroid in accordance with its Prescribing Information. Consider more frequent monitoring for corticosteroid adverse reactions when used concomitantly with NEXTSTELLIS. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy Clinical Effect Concomitant use of NEXTSTELLIS may increase thyroid-binding globulin concentration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Prevention or Management Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement in accordance with its Prescribing Information.
