Drug: elafibranor

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Hormonal Contraceptives: Switch to effective non-hormonal contraceptives or add a barrier method when using hormonal contraceptives and for at least 3 weeks after last dose. ( 7.1 ) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors : Monitor for signs and symptoms of muscle injury. ( 5.1 , 7.1 ) Rifampin: Monitor the biochemical response (e.g., ALP and bilirubin) when patients initiate rifampin during IQIRVO treatment. ( 7.2 ) Bile Acid Sequestrants: Administer at least 4 hours before or 4 hours after taking a bile acid binding sequestrant, or at as great an interval as possible. ( 2.3 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of IQIRVO on Other Drugs Table 3 includes clinically significant drug interactions affecting other drugs. Table 3: Clinically Significant Interactions Affecting Other Drugs Hormonal Contraceptives Clinical Impact IQIRVO is a weak CYP3A4 inducer [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Co-administration of IQIRVO and hormonal contraceptives (e.g., birth control pills, skin patches, implant) may reduce the systemic exposure of progestin and ethinyl estradiol (CYP3A4 substrates), which may lead to contraceptive failure and/or an increase in breakthrough bleeding. Intervention Switch to effective non-hormonal contraceptives or add a barrier method when using hormonal contraceptives during treatment with IQIRVO and for at least 3 weeks after last dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Clinical Impact CPK elevation and/or myalgia occurred in patients on IQIRVO monotherapy. Co-administration of IQIRVO and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) which have a risk of myalgia, can increase the risk of myopathy by a mechanism that has not been fully characterized [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Intervention Monitor for signs and symptoms of muscle injury. Consider periodic assessment (clinical exam, CPK) during treatment. Interrupt IQIRVO treatment if there is new onset or worsening of muscle pain or myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on IQIRVO Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions affecting IQIRVO. Table 4: Clinically Significant Interactions Affecting IQIRVO Rifampin Clinical Impact Co-administration of IQIRVO with rifampin, an inducer of metabolizing enzymes, may reduce the systemic exposure of elafibranor and its active metabolite via increased metabolism and may result in delayed or suboptimal biochemical response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Monitor the biochemical response (e.g., ALP and bilirubin) when patients initiate rifampin during treatment with IQIRVO. Bile Acid Binding Sequestrants Clinical Impact Bile acid sequestrants may interfere with the action of IQIRVO by reducing its absorption and systemic exposure, which may reduce IQIRVO efficacy. Intervention Administer IQIRVO at least 4 hours before or 4 hours after taking a bile acid binding sequestrant, or at as great an interval as possible [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] .
