Drug: elagolix_and_estradiol_and_norethisterone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Potential for ORIAHNN to Affect Other Drugs Elagolix (a component of ORIAHNN) is: A weak to moderate inducer of cytochrome P450 (CYP3A). Co-administration with ORIAHNN may decrease plasma concentrations of drugs that are substrates of CYP3A. A weak inhibitor of CYP2C19. Co-administration with ORIAHNN may increase plasma concentrations of drugs that are substrates of CYP2C19 (see Table 3). An inhibitor of efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Co-administration with ORIAHNN may increase plasma concentrations of drugs that are substrates of P-gp (see Table 3). The effects of co-administration of ORIAHNN on concentrations of concomitant drugs and the clinical recommendations for these drug interactions are summarized in Table 3. Table 3. Drug Interactions: Effects of ORIAHNN on Other Drugs Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Plasma Exposure of Concomitant Drug Clinical Recommendations Cardiac glycosides: digoxin ↑ digoxin Increase monitoring of digoxin concentrations and potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when initiating ORIAHNN in patients who are taking digoxin. If ORIAHNN is discontinued, increase monitoring of digoxin concentrations. Benzodiazepines: oral midazolam ↓ midazolam Consider increasing the dose of midazolam by no more than 2-fold and individualize midazolam therapy based on the patient’s response. Statins: rosuvastatin ↓ rosuvastatin Monitor lipid levels and adjust the dose of rosuvastatin, if necessary. Proton pump inhibitors: omeprazole ↑ omeprazole No dose adjustment needed for omeprazole 40 mg once daily when co-administered with ORIAHNN. When ORIAHNN is used concomitantly with higher doses of omeprazole, consider dosage reduction of omeprazole. See Tables 6 and 7 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . The direction of the arrow indicates the direction of the change in the area under the curve (AUC) (↑= increase, ↓ = decrease). 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect ORIAHNN Elagolix (a component of ORIAHNN) is a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1; estradiol and norethindrone acetate are metabolized partially by CYP3A [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Concomitant use of ORIAHNN with: Strong CYP3A inducers may decrease elagolix, estradiol, and norethindrone plasma concentrations and may result in a decrease of the therapeutic effects of ORIAHNN. Rifampin is not recommended. The concomitant use of rifampin increased plasma concentrations of elagolix [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Strong CYP3A inhibitors are not recommended. Concomitant use of ORIAHNN with strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase elagolix, estradiol, and norethindrone plasma concentrations and increase the risk of adverse reactions. OATP1B1 inhibitors that are known or expected to significantly increase elagolix plasma concentrations is contraindicated due to increased risk of elagolix-associated adverse reactions [see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
