Drug: elbasvir_and_grazoprevir

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of ZEPATIER with moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended as they may decrease the plasma concentration of ZEPATIER. ( 7 ) Co-administration of ZEPATIER with certain strong CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended as they may increase the plasma concentration of ZEPATIER. ( 7 ) Clearance of HCV infection with direct-acting antivirals may lead to changes in hepatic function, which may impact safe and effective use of concomitant medications. Frequent monitoring of relevant laboratory parameters (INR or blood glucose) and dose adjustments of certain concomitant medications may be necessary. ( 7.2 ) Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. ( 4 , 5.5 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Potential for Drug Interactions Grazoprevir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3 transporters. Co-administration of ZEPATIER with OATP1B1/3 inhibitors that are known or expected to significantly increase grazoprevir plasma concentrations is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Table 2 ] . Elbasvir and grazoprevir are substrates of CYP3A and P-gp, but the role of intestinal P-gp in the absorption of elbasvir and grazoprevir appears to be minimal. Co-administration of moderate or strong inducers of CYP3A with ZEPATIER may decrease elbasvir and grazoprevir plasma concentrations, leading to reduced therapeutic effect of ZEPATIER. Co-administration of ZEPATIER with strong CYP3A inducers or efavirenz is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Table 2 ]. Co-administration of ZEPATIER with moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Table 6 ]. Co-administration of ZEPATIER with strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase elbasvir and grazoprevir concentrations. Co-administration of ZEPATIER with certain strong CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Table 6 ] . 7.2 Established and other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions If dose adjustments of concomitant medications are made due to treatment with ZEPATIER, doses should be readjusted after administration of ZEPATIER is completed. Clearance of HCV infection with direct-acting antivirals may lead to changes in hepatic function, which may impact the safe and effective use of concomitant medications. For example, altered blood glucose control resulting in serious symptomatic hypoglycemia has been reported in diabetic patients in postmarketing case reports and published epidemiological studies. Management of hypoglycemia in these cases required either discontinuation or dose modification of concomitant medications used for diabetes treatment. Frequent monitoring of relevant laboratory parameters (e.g., International Normalized Ratio [INR] in patients taking warfarin, blood glucose levels in diabetic patients) or drug concentrations of concomitant medications such as CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., certain immunosuppressants) is recommended to ensure safe and effective use. Dose adjustments of concomitant medications may be necessary. Table 6 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either ZEPATIER, the components of ZEPATIER (elbasvir [EBR] and grazoprevir [GZR]) as individual agents, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with ZEPATIER [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 6: Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose May Be Recommended Based on Results from Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interactions This table is not all inclusive. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration ↓ = decrease, ↑ = increase Clinical Comment Antibiotics : Nafcillin ↓ EBR ↓ GZR Co-administration of ZEPATIER with nafcillin may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of ZEPATIER. Co-administration is not recommended. Antifungals: oral Ketoconazole These interactions have been studied in healthy adults. ↑ EBR ↑ GZR Co-administration of oral ketoconazole is not recommended. Endothelin Antagonists: Bosentan ↓ EBR ↓ GZR Co-administration of ZEPATIER with bosentan may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of ZEPATIER. Co-administration is not recommended. Immunosuppressants: Tacrolimus ↑ tacrolimus Frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, changes in renal function, and tacrolimus-associated adverse events upon the initiation of co-administration is recommended. HIV Medications: Etravirine ↓ EBR ↓ GZR Co-administration of ZEPATIER with etravirine may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of ZEPATIER. Co-administration is not recommended. Elvitegravir/ cobicistat/ emtricitabine/ tenofovir (disoproxil fumarate or alafenamide) ↑ EBR ↑ GZR Co-administration of cobicistat-containing regimens is not recommended. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors See Drug Interactions (7.3) for a list of HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors without clinically relevant interactions with ZEPATIER. : Atorvastatin ↑ atorvastatin The dose of atorvastatin should not exceed a daily dose of 20 mg when co-administered with ZEPATIER. Rosuvastatin ↑ rosuvastatin The dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed a daily dose of 10 mg when co-administered with ZEPATIER. Fluvastatin Lovastatin Simvastatin ↑ fluvastatin ↑ lovastatin ↑ simvastatin Statin-associated adverse events such as myopathy should be closely monitored. The lowest necessary dose should be used when co-administered with ZEPATIER. Wakefulness-Promoting Agents: Modafinil ↓ EBR ↓ GZR Co-administration of ZEPATIER with modafinil may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of ZEPATIER. Co-administration is not recommended. 7.3 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with ZEPATIER The interaction between the components of ZEPATIER (elbasvir or grazoprevir) or ZEPATIER and the following drugs were evaluated in clinical studies, and no dose adjustments are needed when ZEPATIER is used with the following drugs individually: acid reducing agents (proton pump inhibitors, H2 blockers, antacids), buprenorphine/naloxone, digoxin, dolutegravir, methadone, mycophenolate mofetil, oral contraceptive pills, phosphate binders, pitavastatin, pravastatin, prednisone, raltegravir, ribavirin, rilpivirine, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, and sofosbuvir [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction is expected when ZEPATIER is co-administered with abacavir, emtricitabine, entecavir, and lamivudine.
