Drug: emicizumab

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Hypercoagulability with Concomitant Use of aPCC Clinical experience suggests that a drug interaction exists with HEMLIBRA and aPCC [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ] . 7.2 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions HEMLIBRA restores the tenase cofactor activity of missing activated factor VIII (FVIIIa). Coagulation laboratory tests based on intrinsic clotting (i.e., aPTT) measure the total clotting time including time needed for activation of FVIII to FVIIIa by thrombin. Such intrinsic pathway-based tests will yield overly shortened clotting times with HEMLIBRA, which does not require activation by thrombin. The overly shortened intrinsic clotting time will then disturb all single-factor assays based on aPTT, such as the one-stage FVIII activity assay; however, single-factor assays utilizing chromogenic or immuno-based methods are unaffected by HEMLIBRA and may be used to monitor coagulation parameters during treatment, with specific considerations for FVIII chromogenic activity assays as described below. Chromogenic FVIII activity tests may be manufactured with either human or bovine coagulation proteins. Assays containing human coagulation factors are responsive to HEMLIBRA but may overestimate the clinical hemostatic potential of HEMLIBRA. In contrast, assays containing bovine coagulation factors are insensitive to HEMLIBRA (no activity measured) and can be used to monitor endogenous or infused FVIII activity, or to measure anti-FVIII inhibitors. HEMLIBRA remains active in the presence of inhibitors against FVIII, so it will produce a false-negative result in clotting-based Bethesda assays for functional inhibition of FVIII. Instead, a chromogenic Bethesda assay utilizing a bovine-based FVIII chromogenic test that is insensitive to HEMLIBRA may be used. Due to the long half-life of HEMLIBRA, effects on coagulation assays may persist for up to 6 months after the last dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
