Drug: empagliflozin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 4 for clinically relevant interactions with JARDIANCE. Table 4 Clinically Relevant Interactions with JARDIANCE Diuretics Clinical Impact Coadministration of empagliflozin with diuretics resulted in increased urine volume and frequency of voids, which might enhance the potential for volume depletion. Intervention Before initiating JARDIANCE, assess volume status and renal function. In patients with volume depletion, correct this condition before initiating JARDIANCE. Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion, and renal function after initiating therapy. Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when JARDIANCE is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin. Intervention Coadministration of JARDIANCE with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may require lower dosages of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during JARDIANCE initiation and dosage changes. Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) Assay Clinical Impact Measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. See full prescribing information for information on drug interactions and interference of JARDIANCE with laboratory tests. ( 7 )
