Drug: empagliflozin_and_linagliptin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 describes clinically relevant interactions with GLYXAMBI. Table 3 Clinically Relevant Interactions with GLYXAMBI Diuretics Clinical Impact Coadministration of empagliflozin with diuretics resulted in increased urine volume and frequency of voids, which might enhance the potential for volume depletion. Intervention Before initiating GLYXAMBI, assess volume status and renal function. In patients with volume depletion, correct this condition before initiating GLYXAMBI. Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion, and renal function after initiating therapy. Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when GLYXAMBI is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin. Intervention Coadministration of GLYXAMBI with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may require lower dosages of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during GLYXAMBI initiation and dosage changes. Inducers of P-glycoprotein or CYP3A4 Enzymes Clinical Impact Rifampin decreased linagliptin exposure, suggesting that the efficacy of linagliptin may be reduced when administered in combination with a strong P-gp or CYP3A4 inducer. Intervention Use of alternative treatments is strongly recommended when linagliptin is to be administered with a strong P-gp or CYP3A4 inducer. Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) Assay Clinical Impact Measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. See full prescribing information for information on drug interactions and interference of GLYXAMBI with laboratory tests. ( 7 )
