Drug: empagliflozin_and_metformin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 4 for clinically relevant interactions with SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR. Table 4 Clinically Relevant Interactions with SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Intervention Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Alcohol Clinical Impact Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Intervention Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR. Diuretics Clinical Impact Coadministration of empagliflozin with diuretics resulted in increased urine volume and frequency of voids, which might enhance the potential for volume depletion. Intervention Before initiating SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR, assess volume status and renal function. In patients with volume depletion, correct this condition before initiating SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR. Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion, and renal function after initiating therapy. Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin. Intervention Coadministration of SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may require lower dosages of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. Intervention When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR, the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR initiation and dosage changes. Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) Assay Clinical Impact Measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. ( 7 ) Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider benefits and risks of concomitant use. ( 7 ) See full prescribing information for additional drug interactions and information on interference of SYNJARDY or SYNJARDY XR with laboratory tests. ( 7 )
