Drug: emtricitabine,_rilpivirine_hydrochloride,_and_tenofovir_alafenamide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ODEFSEY is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; therefore, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) Consult the Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important drug interactions. ( 4 , 5.6 , 7 ) 7.1 Not Recommended with Other Antiretroviral Medications Because ODEFSEY is a complete regimen, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended. 7.2 Drugs Inducing or Inhibiting CYP3A Enzymes RPV is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and drugs that induce or inhibit CYP3A may affect the clearance of RPV [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of RPV and drugs that induce CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentrations of RPV and loss of virologic response and possible resistance to RPV or to the class of NNRTIs [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , and Table 4 ] . Coadministration of RPV and drugs that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of RPV and possible adverse events. 7.3 Drugs Inducing or Inhibiting P-glycoprotein TAF, a component of ODEFSEY, is a substrate of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3. Drugs that strongly affect P-gp and BCRP activity may lead to changes in TAF absorption (see Table 4 ) . Drugs that induce P-gp activity are expected to decrease the absorption of TAF, resulting in decreased plasma concentration of TAF, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of ODEFSEY and development of resistance. Coadministration of ODEFSEY with other drugs that inhibit P-gp and BCRP may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of TAF. 7.4 Drugs Increasing Gastric pH Coadministration of RPV with drugs that increase gastric pH may decrease plasma concentrations of RPV and lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to RPV or to the class of NNRTIs. Use of RPV with proton pump inhibitors is contraindicated and use of RPV with H 2 -receptor antagonists requires staggered administration [see Contraindications (4) and Table 4 ]. 7.5 QT Prolonging Drugs There is limited information available on the potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction between RPV and drugs that prolong the QTc interval. In a study of healthy participants, higher than recommended doses of RPV, 75 mg once daily and 300 mg once daily (3 times and 12 times recommended daily dose in ODEFSEY) prolonged the QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Consider alternative medications to ODEFSEY in patients taking a drug with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes. 7.6 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Because FTC and tenofovir are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, coadministration of ODEFSEY with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of FTC, tenofovir, and other renally eliminated drugs and this may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Some examples of drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.7 Significant Drug Interactions Table 4 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions with recommended steps to prevent or manage the drug interaction (the table is not all inclusive). The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either ODEFSEY, the components of ODEFSEY (FTC, RPV and TAF) as individual agents, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with ODEFSEY [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Tables 9–12]. For list of contraindicated drugs, [see Contraindications (4) ]. Table 4 Significant This table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Increase=↑; Decrease=↓; No Effect=↔ Clinical Comment Antacids: antacids (e.g., aluminum, magnesium hydroxide, or calcium carbonate) ↔ RPV (antacids taken at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after RPV) ↓ RPV (concomitant intake) Administer antacids at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after ODEFSEY. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Antimycobacterials: rifampin rifapentine ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Antimycobacterials: rifabutin ↓ RPV The interaction was evaluated in a clinical study. All other drug interactions shown are predicted. ↓ TAF Coadministration of ODEFSEY with rifabutin is not recommended. Azole Antifungal Agents: fluconazole itraconazole ketoconazole posaconazole voriconazole ↑ RPV , This interaction study has been performed with a dose higher than the recommended dose for RPV. The dosing recommendation is applicable to the recommended dose of RPV 25 mg once daily. ↑­ TAF ↓ ketoconazole , No dosage adjustment is required when ODEFSEY is coadministered with azole antifungal agents. Clinically monitor for breakthrough fungal infections when azole antifungals are coadministered with ODEFSEY. Glucocorticoid (systemic): dexamethasone (more than a single dose) ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. H 2 -Receptor Antagonists: cimetidine famotidine nizatidine ranitidine ↔ RPV , (famotidine taken 12 hours before RPV or 4 hours after RPV) ↓ RPV , (famotidine taken 2 hours before RPV) Administer H 2 -receptor antagonists at least 12 hours before or at least 4 hours after ODEFSEY. Herbal Products: St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Macrolide or Ketolide Antibiotics: clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin ↑­ RPV ↔ clarithromycin ↔ erythromycin ↔ telithromycin Where possible, alternatives such as azithromycin should be considered. Narcotic Analgesics: methadone ↓ R(–) methadone ↓ S(+) methadone ↔ RPV ↔ methadone (when used with tenofovir) No dosage adjustments are required when initiating coadministration of methadone with ODEFSEY. However, clinical monitoring is recommended, as methadone maintenance therapy may need to be adjusted in some patients. Proton Pump Inhibitors: e.g., dexlansoprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole, omeprazole, pantoprazole, rabeprazole ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. 7.8 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions with ODEFSEY Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the fixed dose combination or components of ODEFSEY, no clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when ODEFSEY is combined with the following drugs: acetaminophen, atorvastatin, chlorzoxazone, digoxin, ethinyl estradiol, ledipasvir, metformin, midazolam, norethindrone, norgestimate, sildenafil, simeprevir, sofosbuvir, velpatasvir, and voxilaprevir.
