Drug: emtricitabine,_rilpivirine,_tenofovir_disoproxil_fumarate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; therefore, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) • Consult the Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important drug interactions. ( 4 , 5.7 , 7 ) 7.1 Not Recommended with Other Antiretroviral Medications Because emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are a complete regimen, coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 infection is not recommended. Comprehensive information regarding potential drug-drug interactions with other antiretroviral medications is not provided. This section describes clinically relevant drug interactions with emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. Drug interaction studies were conducted with the components of emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets (FTC, RPV, and TDF as single agents) or with emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets as a combination product [see Dosage and Administration (2) , Contraindications (4) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Drugs Inducing or Inhibiting CYP3A Enzymes Rilpivirine is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A, and drugs that induce or inhibit CYP3A may thus affect the clearance of RPV [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of RPV and drugs that induce CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentrations of RPV and loss of virologic response and possible resistance to RPV or to the class of NNRTIs. Coadministration of RPV and drugs that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of RPV. 7.3 Drugs Increasing Gastric pH Coadministration of RPV with drugs that increase gastric pH may decrease plasma concentrations of RPV and loss of virologic response and possible resistance to RPV or to the class of NNRTIs. Use of RPV with proton pump inhibitors is contraindicated and use of RPV with H2-receptor antagonists requires staggered administration [see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Because FTC and tenofovir are primarily eliminated by the kidneys through a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, coadministration of emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase serum concentrations of FTC, tenofovir, and/or other renally eliminated drugs. Some examples of drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.5 QT Prolonging Drugs There is limited information available on the potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction between RPV and drugs that prolong the QTc interval of the electrocardiogram. In a study of healthy subjects, 75 mg once daily and 300 mg once daily doses of RPV (3 times and 12 times the dose in emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets) have been shown to prolong the QTc interval of the electrocardiogram [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Consider alternatives to emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets when coadministered with a drug with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes. 7.6 Significant Drug Interactions Important drug interaction information for emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is summarized in Table 4. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with FTC, RPV, or TDF as individual medications or with emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets as a combination product, or are potential drug interactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Tables 9–14] . For list of contraindicated drugs, [see Contraindications (4) ] . Table 4 Significant This table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Increase = ↑; Decrease = ↓; No Effect = ↔ Clinical Comment Antacids: antacids (e.g., aluminum, magnesium hydroxide, or calcium carbonate) ↔ RPV (antacids taken at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after RPV) ↓ RPV (concomitant intake) Administer antacids at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Antimycobacterials: rifampin rifapentine ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. rifabutin ↓ RPV The interaction was evaluated in a clinical study. All other drug-drug interactions shown are predicted. If emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are coadministered with rifabutin, an additional 25 mg tablet of RPV (Edurant) once per day is recommended to be taken concomitantly with emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets and with a meal for the duration of rifabutin coadministration. Azole Antifungal Agents: fluconazole itraconazole ketoconazole posaconazole voriconazole ↑ RPV , This interaction study has been performed with a dose higher than the recommended dose for RPV assessing the maximal effect on the coadministered drug. The dosing recommendation is applicable to the recommended dose of RPV 25 mg once daily. ↓ ketoconazole , No dose adjustment is required when emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are coadministered with azole antifungal agents. Clinically monitor for breakthrough fungal infections when azole antifungals are coadministered with emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. Glucocorticoid (systemic): dexamethasone (more than a single-dose treatment) ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Hepatitis C Antiviral Agents: ledipasvir/sofosbuvir sofosbuvir/velpatasvir sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/ voxilaprevir ↑ tenofovir Patients receiving emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with HARVONI ® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir), EPCLUSA ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir), or VOSEVI ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir) should be monitored for adverse reactions associated with TDF. H 2 -Receptor Antagonists: cimetidine famotidine nizatidine ranitidine ↔ RPV , (famotidine taken 12 hours before RPV or 4 hours after RPV) ↓ RPV , (famotidine taken 2 hours before RPV) Administer H 2 -receptor antagonists at least 12 hours before or at least 4 hours after emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. Herbal Products: St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Macrolide or Ketolide Antibiotics: clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin ↑ RPV ↔ clarithromycin ↔ erythromycin ↔ telithromycin Where possible, alternatives such as azithromycin should be considered. Narcotic Analgesics: methadone ↓ R(−) methadone ↓ S(+) methadone ↔ RPV ↔ methadone (when used with tenofovir) No dose adjustments are required when initiating coadministration of methadone with emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. However, clinical monitoring is recommended as methadone maintenance therapy may need to be adjusted in some patients. Proton Pump Inhibitors: e.g., dexlansoprazole esomeprazole lansoprazole omeprazole pantoprazole rabeprazole ↓ RPV Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and development of resistance. 7.7 Drugs with No Observed Interactions with Emtricitabine, Rilpivirine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed between FTC and the following medications: famciclovir, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir, or TDF. No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed between TDF and the following medications: entecavir, methadone, oral contraceptives, ribavirin, sofosbuvir, or tacrolimus in studies conducted in healthy subjects. No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed between RPV and the following medications: acetaminophen, atorvastatin, chlorzoxazone, ethinyl estradiol, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, norethindrone, sildenafil, simeprevir, sofosbuvir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir, or TDF. RPV did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin or metformin.
