Drug: enasidenib_mesylate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Certain CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 Substrates: Avoid concomitant use unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information ( 7.1 ). • Certain CYP3A Substrates: Avoid concomitant use unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information ( 7.1 ). • Certain OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP Substrates: Avoid concomitant use unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information ( 7.1 ). 7.1 Effect of IDHIFA on Other Drugs Certain CYP1A2 Substrates Avoid concomitant use with IDHIFA unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for CYP1A2 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Consider reducing the frequency of caffeine intake from various food and beverages in a 24 hour period while taking IDHIFA because IDHIFA may increase the effect of caffeine in patients who are sensitive to it. Enasidenib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use of IDHIFA increases the exposure of CYP1A2 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to the substrates. Certain CYP2C19 substrates Avoid concomitant use with IDHIFA unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for CYP2C19 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Enasidenib is a CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of IDHIFA increases the exposure of CYP2C19 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Certain CYP3A substrates Avoid concomitant use with IDHIFA unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for CYP3A substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to reduced efficacy. Do not administer IDHIFA with anti-fungal agents that are substrates of CYP3A due to expected loss of antifungal efficacy. Co-administration of IDHIFA may decrease the concentrations of hormonal contraceptives. Consider alternative methods of contraception in patients receiving IDHIFA [See use in Specific Population (8.1 , 8.3 )] . Enasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of IDHIFA decreases the exposure of CYP3A substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the efficacy of the substrates. Certain OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP Substrates Avoid coadministration of IDHIFA with OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP substrates, for which minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP substrates dosage(s) in accordance with the respective Prescribing Information. Enasidenib is an OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP transporter inhibitor. Concomitant use of IDHIFA increases the exposure of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Certain P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates When coadministered with IDHIFA, follow recommended P-gp substrates Prescribing Information and monitor more frequently for adverse reactions related to these substrates. Enasidenib is a P-gp transporter inhibitor. Concomitant use of IDHIFA increases the exposure of P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to the substrates.
