Drug: ephedrine_sulfate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Interactions that Augment the Pressor Effect Oxytocin and oxytocic drugs Clinical Impact: Serious postpartum hypertension has been described in patients who received both a vasopressor (i.e., methoxamine, phenylephrine, ephedrine) and an oxytocic (i.e., methylergonovine, ergonovine). Some of these patients experienced a stroke. Intervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both ephedrine and an oxytocic. Clonidine, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), atropine Clinical Impact: These drugs augment the pressor effect of ephedrine. Intervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both ephedrine and any of these drugs. Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect Clinical Impact: These drugs antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine. Intervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both ephedrine and any of these drugs. Examples: α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic receptor antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine Other Drug Interactions Guanethidine Clinical Impact: Ephedrine may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. Intervention: Clinician should monitor patient for blood pressor response and adjust the dosage or choice of pressor accordingly. Rocuronium Clinical Impact: Ephedrine may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. Intervention: Be aware of this potential interaction. No treatment or other interventions are needed. Epidural anesthesia Clinical Impact: Ephedrine may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. Intervention: Monitor and treat the patient according to clinical practice. Theophylline Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ephedrine may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Intervention: Monitor patient for worsening symptoms and manage symptoms according to clinical practice. Cardiac glycosides Clinical Impact: Giving ephedrine with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. Intervention: Carefully monitor patients on cardiac glycosides who are also administered ephedrine. Interactions that Augment Pressor Effect : clonidine, oxytocin and oxytocic drugs, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), and atropine. Monitor blood pressure. ( 7 ) Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect : Antagonistic effects with α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine. Monitor blood pressure. ( 7 ) Guanethidine : Ephedrine may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of pressor accordingly. Rocuronium : Ephedrine may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. Be aware of this potential interaction. No treatment or other interventions are needed. Epidural anesthesia : Ephedrine may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. Monitor and treat the patient according to clinical practice. Theophylline : Concomitant use of ephedrine may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Monitor patient for worsening symptoms and manage symptoms according to clinical practice. Cardiac glycosides : Giving ephedrine with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. Carefully monitor patients on cardiac glycosides who are also administered ephedrine.
