Drug: epinephrine,_albuterol_sulfate,_nitroglycerin,_diphenhydramine_hydrochloride,_aspirin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cardiac Glycosides, Diuretics, and Anti-arrhythmics Patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking cardiac glycosides, diuretics, or anti-arrhythmics should be observed carefully for the development of cardiac arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . Antidepressants, Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors, Levothyroxine, and Antihistamines The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, levothyroxine sodium, and certain antihistamines, notably chlorpheniramine, tripelennamine, and diphenhydramine. Beta-Adrenergic Blockers The cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine are antagonized by beta- adrenergic blocking drugs, such as propranolol. Alpha-Adrenergic Blockers The vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine are antagonized by alpha-adrenergic blocking drugs, such as phentolamine. Ergot Alkaloids Ergot alkaloids may also reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine. Cardiac glycosides or diuretics: observe for development of cardiac arrhythmias. ( 7 ) Tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, levothyroxine sodium, and certain antihistamines: potentiate effects of epinephrine. ( 7 ) Beta-adrenergic blocking drugs: antagonize cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine. ( 7 ) Alpha-adrenergic blocking drugs: antagonize vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine. ( 7 ) Ergot alkaloids: may reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine. ( 7 )
Drug Interactions Beta-Blockers: Beta-adrenergic-receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol, but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients. Therefore, patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, e.g., as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma. In this setting, cardioselective beta-blockers should be considered, although they should be administered with caution. Diuretics: The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics. Albuterol-Digoxin: Mean decreases of 16% and 22% in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single-dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol, respectively, to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days. The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear; nevertheless, it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants: Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ergotamine: increased bioavailability of ergotamine. Avoid concomitant use. (7.2) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA-approved patient labeling. Revised: 10/2021 7.1 PDE-5-Inhibitors and sGC-Stimulators Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5). PDE-5-Inhibitors such as avanafil, sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates. Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are taking soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) stimulators. Concomitant use can cause hypotension. The time course and dose dependence of these interactions have not been studied, and use within a few days of one another is not recommended. Appropriate supportive care for the severe hypotension has not been studied, but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose, with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion. 7.2 Ergotamine Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris. Therefore, patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible.
Drug Interactions Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants (hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, etc.) MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines.
