Drug: epirubicin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid using cardiotoxic agents in combination with ELLENCE ( 7.1 ). • Discontinue cimetidine during treatment with ELLENCE ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Cardiotoxic Agents Closely monitor cardiac function when ELLENCE is used in combination with other cardiotoxic agents. Patients receiving ELLENCE after stopping treatment with other cardiotoxic agents, especially those with long half-lives such as trastuzumab, may be at an increased risk of developing cardiotoxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Trastuzumab may persist in the circulation for up to 7 months. Therefore, avoid anthracycline-based therapy for up to 7 months after stopping trastuzumab when possible. Monitor the patient's cardiac function closely if anthracyclines are used before this time. Concomitant use of ELLENCE with other cardioactive compounds that could cause heart failure (e.g., calcium channel blockers), requires close monitoring of cardiac function throughout treatment. 7.2 Cimetidine Cimetidine increases the exposure to epirubicin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Discontinue cimetidine during treatment with ELLENCE. 7.3 Other Cytotoxic Drugs ELLENCE used in combination with other cytotoxic drugs may show on-treatment additive toxicity, especially hematologic and gastrointestinal effects. Paclitaxel: The administration of epirubicin immediately prior to or after paclitaxel increased the systemic exposure of epirubicin, epirubicinol and 7-deoxydoxorubicin aglycone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Docetaxel: The administration of epirubicin immediately prior to or after docetaxel did not have an effect on the systemic exposure of epirubicin, but increased the systemic exposure of epirubicinol and 7-deoxydoxorubicin aglycone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.4 Radiation Therapy There are few data regarding the coadministration of radiation therapy and ELLENCE. In adjuvant trials of ELLENCE-containing CEF-120 or FEC-100 chemotherapies, breast irradiation was delayed until after chemotherapy was completed. This practice resulted in no apparent increase in local breast cancer recurrence relative to published accounts in the literature. A small number of patients received ELLENCE-based chemotherapy concomitantly with radiation therapy but had chemotherapy interrupted in order to avoid potential overlapping toxicities. It is likely that use of ELLENCE with radiotherapy may sensitize tissues to the cytotoxic actions of irradiation. Administration of ELLENCE after previous radiation therapy may induce an inflammatory recall reaction at the site of the irradiation.
