Drug: erdafitinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate CYP2C9 or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Consider alternative agents or monitor closely for adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 inducers: Avoid concomitant use with BALVERSA. ( 7.1 ) Moderate CYP3A4 inducers: Administer BALVERSA at a dose of 9 mg. ( 7.1 ) Serum phosphate level-altering agents: Avoid concomitant use with agents that can alter serum phosphate levels before the initial dose modification period. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) P-gp substrates: Separate BALVERSA administration by at least 6 hours before or after administration of P-gp substrates with narrow therapeutic indices. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on BALVERSA Table 7 summarizes drug interactions that affect the exposure of BALVERSA or serum phosphate level and their clinical management. Table 7: Drug Interactions that Affect BALVERSA Moderate CYP2C9 or Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Co-administration of BALVERSA with moderate CYP2C9 or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased erdafitinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased erdafitinib plasma concentrations may lead to increased drug-related toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Clinical Management Consider alternative therapies that are not moderate CYP2C9 or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors during treatment with BALVERSA. If co-administration of a moderate CYP2C9 or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is unavoidable, monitor closely for adverse reactions and consider dose modifications accordingly [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. If the moderate CYP2C9 or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, resume the BALVERSA dose before dose modifications in the absence of drug-related toxicity. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact Co-administration of BALVERSA with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased erdafitinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Decreased erdafitinib plasma concentrations may lead to decreased activity. Clinical Management Avoid co-administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers with BALVERSA. Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact Co-administration of BALVERSA with moderate CYP3A4 inducers may decrease erdafitinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Decreased erdafitinib plasma concentrations may lead to decreased activity. Clinical Management If a moderate CYP3A4 inducer must be co-administered at the start of BALVERSA treatment, administer BALVERSA at a dose of 9 mg daily. When a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, continue BALVERSA at the same dose, in the absence of drug-related toxicity. Serum Phosphate Level-Altering Agents Clinical Impact Co-administration of BALVERSA with other serum phosphate level-altering agents may increase or decrease serum phosphate levels [see Pharmacodynamics (12.2) ]. Changes in serum phosphate levels due to serum phosphate level-altering agents (other than erdafitinib) may interfere with serum phosphate levels needed for the determination of initial dose increased based on serum phosphate levels [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Clinical Management Avoid co-administration of serum phosphate level-altering agents with BALVERSA before initial dose increase period based on serum phosphate levels (Days 14 to 21) [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. 7.2 Effect of BALVERSA on Other Drugs Table 8 summarizes the effect of BALVERSA on other drugs and their clinical management. Table 8: BALVERSA Drug Interactions that Affect Other Drugs P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates Clinical Impact Co-administration of BALVERSA with P-gp substrates may increase the plasma concentrations of P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased plasma concentrations of P-gp substrates may lead to increased toxicity of the P-gp substrates. Clinical Management If co-administration of BALVERSA with P-gp substrates is unavoidable, separate BALVERSA administration by at least 6 hours before or after administration of P-gp substrates with narrow therapeutic index.
