Drug: erlotinib_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors Co-administration of erlotinib tablets with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or a combined CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 inhibitor increased erlotinib exposure. Erlotinib is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2. Increased erlotinib exposure may increase the risk of exposure-related toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid co-administering erlotinib tablets with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, nefazodone, nelﬁnavir, posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, voriconazole, grapefruit or grapefruit juice) or a combined CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 inhibitor (e.g., ciproﬂoxacin). Reduce the erlotinib tablets dosage when co-administering with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or a combined CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 inhibitor if co-administration is unavoidable [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . CYP3A4 Inducers Pre-treatment with a CYP3A4 inducer prior to erlotinib tablets decreased erlotinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increase the erlotinib tablets dosage if co-administration with CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital and St. John's wort) is unavoidable [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. CYP1A2 Inducers and Cigarette Smoking Cigarette smoking decreased erlotinib exposure. Avoid smoking tobacco (CYP1A2 inducer) and avoid concomitant use of erlotinib tablets with moderate CYP1A2 inducers (e.g., teriﬂunomide, rifampin, or phenytoin). Increase the erlotinib tablets dosage in patients that smoke tobacco or when co-administration with moderate CYP1A2 inducers is unavoidable [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs the Increase Gastric pH Co-administration of erlotinib tablets with proton pump inhibitors (e.g., omeprazole) and H-2 receptor antagonists (e.g., ranitidine) decreased erlotinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . For proton pump inhibitors, avoid concomitant use if possible. For H-2 receptor antagonists and antacids, modify the dosing schedule [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Increasing the dose of erlotinib when co-administered with gastric PH elevating agents is not likely to compensate for the loss of exposure. Anticoagulants Interaction with coumarin-derived anticoagulants, including warfarin, leading to increased International Normalized Ratio (INR) and bleeding adverse reactions, which in some cases were fatal, have been reported in patients receiving erlotinib tablets. Regularly monitor prothrombin time or INR in patients taking coumarin-derived anticoagulants. Dose modiﬁcations of erlotinib tablets are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . CYP3A4 inhibitors or a combined CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 inhibitor increase erlotinib plasma concentrations. Avoid concomitant use. If not possible, reduce erlotinib dose. ( 2.4 , 7 ) CYP3A4 inducers decrease erlotinib plasma concentrations. Avoid concomitant use. If not possible, increase erlotinib dose. ( 2.4 , 7 ) Cigarette smoking and CYP1A2 inducers decrease erlotinib plasma concentrations. Avoid concomitant use. If not possible, increase erlotinib dose. ( 2.4, 7 ) Drugs that increase gastric pH decrease erlotinib plasma concentrations. For proton pump inhibitors avoid concomitant use if possible. For H-2 receptor antagonists, take erlotinib 10 hours after H-2 receptor antagonist dosing. For use with antacids, separate dosing by several hours. ( 2.4 , 7 )
