Drug: ertugliflozin_and_metformin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with SEGLUROMET Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The risk of lactic acidosis may increase due to concomitant use of Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) with metformin. These drugs frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Intervention: more frequent monitoring of these patients. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact: The risk of lactic acidosis may increase due to concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) which increase systemic exposure to metformin Intervention Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Alcohol Clinical Impact: Potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Intervention: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving SEGLUROMET. Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact: The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when ertugliflozin is used in combination with insulin or an insulin secretagogue. Intervention: A lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with SEGLUROMET. Drugs that Affect Glycemic Control Clinical Impact: Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. Intervention: When a patient is receiving SEGLUROMET along with such drugs, the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control. Lithium Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention: Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during SEGLUROMET initiation and dosage changes. Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact: SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Intervention: Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SEGLUROMET. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) Assay Clinical Impact: Measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Intervention: Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. ( 7.2 ) Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider benefits and risks of concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) See full prescribing information for additional drug interactions and information on interference of SEGLUROMET with laboratory tests. ( 7 )
