Drug: escitalopram_oral

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 presents clinically important drug interactions with escitalopram. TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including escitalopram, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during escitalopram initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of escitalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of escitalopram and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Sumatriptan Clinical Impact: There have been postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Carbamazepine Clinical Impact: Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Intervention: Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in C max and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. Intervention: The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Exercise caution during coadministration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7 ) Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) ( 7 )
