Drug: etrasimod

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Etrasimod is primarily metabolized by CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4. Table 3 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with VELSIPITY and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information. The effect of concomitant use of VELSIPITY with a combination of separate drugs that are moderate to strong inhibitors or inducers of either CYP2C8, CYP2C9, or CYP3A4 is unknown. However, based on the information below, a similar clinically significant change in exposure cannot be ruled out when two or more metabolic pathways are affected. Table 3: Drugs That Affect VELSIPITY CYP-Mediated Metabolic Pathways Anti-Arrhythmic Drugs and QT Prolonging Drugs Clinical Impact A transient decrease in heart rate and AV conduction delays may occur when initiating VELSIPITY [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Because of the potential additive effect on heart rate, VELSIPITY may increase the risk of QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes with concomitant use of Class Ia and Class III anti-arrhythmic drugs and QT prolonging drugs. Prevention or Management Seek the advice of a cardiologist before initiating VELSIPITY treatment with Class Ia (e.g., quinidine, procainamide), Class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol), or other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Beta-Blockers or Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact A transient decrease in heart rate and AV conduction delays may occur when initiating VELSIPITY [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Concomitant use of VELSIPITY in patients receiving stable beta blocker treatment did not result in additive effects on heart rate reduction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . However, the risk of additive heart rate reduction following initiation of beta blocker therapy with stable VELSIPITY treatment or concomitant use with other drugs that may decrease heart rate is unknown. Prevention or Management VELSIPITY can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of beta blocker treatment. Seek the advice of a cardiologist before initiating a beta blocker in a patient receiving stable VELSIPITY treatment or concomitant use with other drugs that may decrease heart rate (e.g., calcium channel blockers). Anti-Neoplastic, Immune-Modulating, or Non-Corticosteroid Immunosuppressive Therapies Clinical Impact Risk of additive immune system effects with VELSIPITY VELSIPITY has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic, immune-modulating, or non-corticosteroid immunosuppressive therapies. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant administration during and in the weeks following administration of VELSIPITY. When switching from drugs with prolonged immune effects, consider the half-life and mode of action of these drugs to avoid unintended additive immunosuppressive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Moderate to Strong Inhibitors of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 Clinical Impact Increased exposure of etrasimod was observed with concomitant use with a drug that is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C9 and a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 (i.e., fluconazole) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Concomitant use with a drug that is a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2C9 and a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 is not recommended. CYP2C9 Poor Metabolizers Using Moderate to Strong Inhibitors of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 Clinical Impact Increased exposure of etrasimod in patients who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers is expected with concomitant use of moderate to strong inhibitors of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 , 12.5) ] . Prevention or Management Concomitant use not recommended. Rifampin Clinical Impact Concomitant use with a drug that is a combined CYP3A4 (strong), CYP2C8 (moderate) and CYP2C9 (moderate) inducer (i.e., rifampin) decreases exposure to etrasimod [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Concomitant use not recommended. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 )
