Drug: exagamglogene_autotemcel

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. CASGEVY is not expected to interact with the hepatic cytochrome P-450 family of enzymes or drug transporters. Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor: Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) must not be used for CD34 + HSC mobilization of patients with SCD. ( 7.1 ) Hydroxyurea: Discontinue hydroxyurea at least 8 weeks prior to start of mobilization and conditioning. ( 7.2 ) Voxelotor and Crizanlizumab: Discontinue the use of voxelotor and crizanlizumab at least 8 weeks prior to start of mobilization and conditioning. ( 7.3 ) Iron Chelators: Discontinue iron chelators at least 7 days prior to initiation of myeloablative conditioning. Avoid the use of non-myelosuppressive iron chelators for at least 3 months and use of myelosuppressive iron chelators for at least 6 months after CASGEVY infusion. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Use of Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) must not be used for CD34 + HSC mobilization of patients with SCD. 7.2 Use of Hydroxyurea Discontinue the use of hydroxyurea at least 8 weeks prior to start of each mobilization cycle and conditioning. There is no experience of the use of hydroxyurea after CASGEVY infusion. 7.3 Use of Voxelotor and Crizanlizumab Discontinue the use of voxelotor and crizanlizumab at least 8 weeks prior to start of mobilization and conditioning, as their interaction potential with mobilization and myeloablative conditioning agents is not known. 7.4 Use of Iron Chelators Discontinue the use of iron chelators at least 7 days prior to initiation of myeloablative conditioning, due to potential interaction with the conditioning agent. Some iron chelators are myelosuppressive. If iron chelation is required, avoid the use of non-myelosuppressive iron chelators for at least 3 months and use of myelosuppressive iron chelators for at least 6 months after CASGEVY infusion. Phlebotomy can be used instead of iron chelation, when appropriate. 7.5 Live Vaccines The safety of immunization with live viral vaccines during or following CASGEVY treatment has not been studied.
