Drug: exenatide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6: Clinically Relevant Interactions with Exenatide Concomitant Use of Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact Exenatide promotes insulin release from pancreatic beta-cells in the presence of elevated glucose concentrations. The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when exenatide is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas) or insulin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Intervention When initiating exenatide, consider reducing the dose of concomitantly administered insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Warfarin Clinical Impact In a drug interaction study, exenatide did not have a significant effect on INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . There have been post-marketing reports for exenatide of increased INR with concomitant use of warfarin, sometimes associated with bleeding [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Intervention In patients taking warfarin, the prothrombin time should be monitored more frequently after initiation or alteration of exenatide therapy. Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, the prothrombin time can be monitored at the intervals recommended for patients taking warfarin. Orally Administered Drugs (e.g., acetaminophen) Clinical Impact Exenatide slows gastric emptying. Therefore, exenatide has the potential to reduce the rate of absorption of orally administered drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Use caution when administering oral medications with exenatide where a slower rate of oral absorption may be clinically meaningful. For oral medications that are dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy, such as contraceptives and antibiotics, patients should be advised to take those drugs at least 1 hour before exenatide injection. If such drugs are to be administered with food, patients should be advised to take them with a meal or snack when exenatide is not administered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . May impact absorption of orally administered medications. ( 7 ) Warfarin: Post-marketing reports of increased INR sometimes associated with bleeding. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of exenatide therapy. ( 7 )
