Drug: ezetimibe_and_simvastatin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ezetimibe and Simvastatin See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of ezetimibe and simvastatin with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 2.3 , 7.1) Cholestyramine: Combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 2.3 , 7.2 ) Coumarin Anticoagulants: Obtain INR before ezetimibe and simvastatin initiation and monitor INR during ezetimibe and simvastatin dosage initiation or adjustment. ( 7.3 ) Digoxin: During ezetimibe and simvastatin initiation, monitor digoxin levels. ( 7.3 ) Fenofibrates: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7.3 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Ezetimibe and simvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and of the transport protein OATP1B1. Ezetimibe and simvastatin plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with ezetimibe and simvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 2: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Clinical Impact: Simvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with ezetimibe and simvastatin increases simvastatin exposure and increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher ezetimibe and simvastatin dosages. Intervention: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with ezetimibe and simvastatin is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . If treatment with a CYP3A4 inhibitor is unavoidable, suspend ezetimibe and simvastatin during the course of strong CYP3A4 inhibitor treatment. Examples: Select azole anti-fungals (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole), select macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin and clarithromycin, telithromycin), select HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, and darunavir/ritonavir), select HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir), cobicistat-containing products, and nefazodone. Cyclosporine, Danazol, or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or gemfibrozil with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or gemfibrozil with ezetimibe and simvastatin is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Intervention: For patients taking verapamil, diltiazem, or dronedarone, do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin 10/10 mg daily . For patients taking amiodarone, amlodipine, or ranolazine, do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin 10/20 mg daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Lomitapide Clinical Impact: Simvastatin exposure is approximately doubled with concomitant use of lomitapide and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased . Intervention: Reduce the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin by 50% if initiating lomitapide. Do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin 10/20 mg daily (or ezetimibe and simvastatin 10/40 mg daily for patients who have previously taken ezetimibe and simvastatin 10/80 mg daily chronically) while taking lomitapide [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.3) ] . Daptomycin Clinical Impact: Cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with simvastatin administered with daptomycin. Both ezetimibe and simvastatin and daptomycin can cause myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when given alone and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis may be increased by coadministration. Intervention: If treatment with daptomycin is required, consider temporarily suspending ezetimibe and simvastatin during the course of daptomycin treatment. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin-containing products (≥1 gram/day niacin) with ezetimibe and simvastatin. The risk of myopathy is greater in Chinese patients. In a clinical trial (median follow-up 3.9 years) of patients at high risk of CVD and with well-controlled LDL-C levels on simvastatin 40 mg/day with or without ezetimibe 10 mg/day, there was no incremental benefit on cardiovascular outcomes with the addition of lipid-modifying doses of niacin Intervention: Concomitant use of ezetimibe and simvastatin with lipid-modifying dosages of niacin is not recommended in Chinese patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) ]. For non-Chinese patients, consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses of niacin concomitantly with ezetimibe and simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with ezetimibe and simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with ezetimibe and simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Grapefruit Juice Clinical Impact: Grapefruit juice can raise the plasma levels of simvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Avoid grapefruit juice when taking ezetimibe and simvastatin. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Table 3 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of ezetimibe and simvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean exposure of total ezetimibe approximately 55%. The incremental LDL-C reduction due to adding ezetimibe and simvastatin to cholestyramine may be reduced by this interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe and simvastatin at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after cholestyramine [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 7.3 Ezetimibe and Simvastatin’s Effect on Other Drugs Table 4 presents ezetimibe and simvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Coumarin Anticoagulants Clinical Impact: Ezetimibe and simvastatin may potentiate the effect of coumarin anticoagulants and increase the INR. The concomitant use of simvastatin (20 to 40 mg) and coumarin anticoagulants increased the INR from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 in healthy subjects and from 2.6 to 3.4 in patients with hyperlipidemia. There are postmarketing reports of clinically evident bleeding and/or increased INR in patients taking concomitant statins (with or without ezetimibe) and coumarin anticoagulants. Intervention: In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants, obtain an INR before starting ezetimibe and simvastatin and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration, or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs. Once the INR is stable, monitor INR at regularly recommended intervals. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of digoxin with ezetimibe and simvastatin may result in elevated plasma digoxin concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor digoxin levels in patients taking digoxin when ezetimibe and simvastatin is initiated. Fenofibrates Clinical Impact: Both ezetimibe and fenofibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Intervention: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered [see the product labeling for fenofibrate and fenofibric acid] .
