Drug: ezetimibe

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with ezetimibe tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Ezetimibe Tablets Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ezetimibe tablets and cyclosporine increases ezetimibe and cyclosporine concentrations. The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Monitor cyclosporine concentrations in patients receiving ezetimibe tablets and cyclosporine. In patients treated with cyclosporine, weigh the potential effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe from concomitant use against the benefits of alterations in lipid levels provided by ezetimibe tablets. Fibrates Clinical Impact: Both fenofibrate and ezetimibe may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Co-administration of ezetimibe tablets with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . Intervention: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe tablets and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean exposure of total ezetimibe. This may result in a reduction of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe tablets at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration (2)] . • Cyclosporine: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe tablets and cyclosporine. Cyclosporine concentrations should be monitored in patients taking ezetimibe tablets concomitantly. ( 7 ) • Fibrates: Coadministration of ezetimibe tablets with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended until use in patients is adequately studied. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe tablets and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7 ) • Bile Acid Sequestrants: Cholestyramine combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe tablets. ( 7 )
