Drug: fentanyl_transdermal

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 includes clinically significant drug interactions with fentanyl transdermal system. Table 6. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Fentanyl Transdermal System Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of fentanyl transdermal system and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of fentanyl, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of fentanyl transdermal system is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the fentanyl transdermal system plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of fentanyl transdermal system until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl transdermal system dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), grapefruit juice CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of fentanyl transdermal system and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of fentanyl [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to fentanyl [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the fentanyl plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the fentanyl transdermal system dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider fentanyl transdermal system dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 )] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue fentanyl transdermal system if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma). Intervention: The use of fentanyl transdermal system is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of fentanyl transdermal system and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Fentanyl transdermal system may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of fentanyl transdermal system and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4) ] . Examples: cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when fentanyl transdermal system is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with fentanyl transdermal system because they may reduce analgesic effect of fentanyl transdermal system or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.21 , 7 )
