Drug: finerenone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Use is contraindicated. ( 7.1 ) Grapefruit or grapefruit juice: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Moderate or weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Monitor serum potassium during drug initiation or dosage adjustment of either Kerendia or the moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, and adjust Kerendia dosage as appropriate ( 7.1 ) Strong or moderate CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Sensitive CYP2C8 substrates at Kerendia 40 mg: Monitor more frequently for adverse reactions. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Kerendia Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Kerendia is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases finerenone exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of Kerendia adverse reactions. Concomitant use of Kerendia with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Avoid concomitant intake of grapefruit or grapefruit juice. Moderate and Weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors Kerendia is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with a moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increases finerenone exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of Kerendia adverse reactions. Monitor serum potassium during drug initiation or dosage adjustment of either Kerendia or the moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, and adjust Kerendia dosage as appropriate [see Dosing and Administration (2.3) and Drug Interaction (7.2) ] . Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Kerendia is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of Kerendia with a strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreases finerenone exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which may reduce the efficacy of Kerendia. Avoid concomitant use of Kerendia with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers. 7.2 Effect of Kerendia on Other Drugs CYP2C8 Substrates Kerendia is a weak CYP2C8 inhibitor at 40 mg. Kerendia increases exposure of CYP2C8 substrates at 40 mg dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions caused by sensitive CYP2C8 substrates if Kerendia 40 mg is co-administered with such substrates since minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. 7.3 Drugs That Affect Serum Potassium More frequent serum potassium monitoring is warranted in patients receiving concomitant therapy with drugs or supplements that increase serum potassium. [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ].
