Drug: flibanserin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 contains clinically significant drug interactions (DI) with ADDYI. Table 3 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with ADDYI Alcohol Clinical Implications The coadministration of ADDYI with alcohol increased the risk of hypotension, syncope, and CNS depression compared to the use of ADDYI alone or alcohol alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Preventing or Managing DI Counsel patients to wait at least two hours after consuming one or two standard alcoholic drinks before taking ADDYI at bedtime or to skip their ADDYI dose if they have consumed three or more alcoholic drinks that evening. [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Other CNS Depressants Examples Diphenhydramine, opioids, hypnotics, benzodiazepines Clinical Implications The concomitant use of ADDYI with CNS depressants may increase the risk of CNS depression (e.g., somnolence) compared to the use of ADDYI alone. Preventing or Managing DI Discuss the concomitant use of other CNS depressants with the patient when prescribing ADDYI. Moderate or Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Examples of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, boceprevir, telaprevir, telithromycin and conivaptan Examples of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors Amprenavir, atazanavir, ciprofloxacin, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, verapamil, and grapefruit juice Clinical Implications The concomitant use of ADDYI with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increases flibanserin exposure compared to the use of ADDYI alone. The risk of hypotension and syncope is increased with concomitant use of ADDYI and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Preventing or Managing DI The concomitant use of ADDYI with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated . Weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors Examples Oral contraceptives, cimetidine, fluoxetine, ginkgo, ranitidine Clinical Implications The concomitant use of ADDYI with multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Preventing or Managing DI Discuss the use of multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors with the patient when prescribing ADDYI. Strong CYP2C19 Inhibitors Examples Proton pump inhibitors, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, benzodiazepines, antifungals Clinical Implications The concomitant use of ADDYI with strong CYP2C19 inhibitors may increase flibanserin exposure which may increase the risk of hypotension, syncope, and CNS depression. Preventing or Managing DI Discuss the use of a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor with the patient when prescribing ADDYI. CYP3A4 Inducers Examples Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin, rifampin, rifapetine, St. John's Wort Clinical Implications The concomitant use of ADDYI with CYP3A4 inducers substantially decreases flibanserin exposure compared to the use of ADDYI alone. Preventing or Managing DI The concomitant use of ADDYI with CYP3A4 inducers is not recommended. Digoxin or Other P-glycoprotein Substrates Examples Digoxin, sirolimus Clinical Implications The concomitant use of ADDYI with digoxin, a drug that is transported by P-glycoprotein (P-gp), increases the digoxin concentration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . This may lead to digoxin toxicity. Preventing or Managing DI Increase monitoring of concentrations of drugs transported by P-gp that have a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., digoxin). • Oral Contraceptives and Other Weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Increases flibanserin exposures and incidence of adverse reactions (6.1, 7) • Strong CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Increases flibanserin exposure which may increase risk of hypotension, syncope, and CNS depression (7) • CYP3A4 Inducers : Use of ADDYI not recommended; flibanserin concentrations substantially reduced (7) • Digoxin : Increases digoxin concentrations, which may lead to digoxin toxicity. Increase monitoring of digoxin concentrations (7)
