Drug: fosphenytoin_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fosphenytoin is extensively bound to human plasma proteins. Drugs highly bound to albumin could increase the unbound fraction of fosphenytoin. Although, it is unknown whether this could result in clinically significant effects, caution is advised when administering fosphenytoin sodium with other drugs that significantly bind to serum albumin. The most significant drug interactions following administration of fosphenytoin sodium are expected to occur with drugs that interact with phenytoin. Phenytoin is extensively bound to serum plasma proteins and is prone to competitive displacement. Phenytoin is primarily metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C19 and is particularly susceptible to inhibitory drug interactions because it is subject to saturable metabolism. Inhibition of metabolism may produce significant increases in circulating phenytoin concentrations and enhance the risk of drug toxicity. Monitoring of phenytoin serum levels is recommended when a drug interaction is suspected. Phenytoin or fosphenytoin sodium is a potent inducer of hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes. • Multiple drug interactions because of extensive plasma protein binding, saturable metabolism, and potent induction of hepatic enzymes ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs that Affect Phenytoin or Fosphenytoin sodium Table 6 includes commonly occurring drug interactions that affect phenytoin (the active metabolite of fosphenytoin sodium) concentrations. However, this list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive. Individual prescribing information from relevant drugs should be consulted. The addition or withdrawal of these agents in patients on phenytoin therapy may require an adjustment of the phenytoin dose to achieve optimal clinical outcome. Table 6. Drugs That Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Interacting Agent Examples Drugs that may increase phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Ethosuximide, felbamate, oxcarbazepine, methsuximide, topiramate Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, miconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Capecitabine, fluorouracil Antidepressants Fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, sertraline Gastric acid reducing agents H 2 antagonists (cimetidine), omeprazole Sulfonamides Sulfamethizole, sulfaphenazole, sulfadiazine, sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim Other Acute alcohol intake, amiodarone, chloramphenicol, chlordiazepoxide, disulfiram, estrogen, fluvastatin, isoniazid, methylphenidate, phenothiazines, salicylates, ticlopidine, tolbutamide, trazodone, warfarin Drugs that may decrease phenytoin serum levels Antineoplastic agents usually in combination Bleomycin, carboplatin, cisplatin, doxorubicin, methotrexate Antiviral agents Fosamprenavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir Antiepileptic drugs Carbamazepine, vigabatrin Other Chronic alcohol abuse, diazepam, diazoxide, folic acid, reserpine, rifampin, St. John’s wort, a theophylline Drugs that may either increase or decrease phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Phenobarbital, valproate sodium, valproic acid a The induction potency of St. John’s wort may vary widely based on preparation. 7.2 Drugs Affected by Phenytoin or Fosphenytoin Sodium Table 7 includes commonly occurring drug interactions affected by phenytoin (the active metabolite of fosphenytoin sodium). However, this list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive. Individual drug package inserts should be consulted. The addition or withdrawal of phenytoin during concomitant therapy with these agents may require adjustment of the dose of these agents to achieve optimal clinical outcome. Table 7: Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Interacting Agent Examples Drugs whose efficacy is impaired by phenytoin Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Irinotecan, paclitaxel, teniposide Delavirdine Phenytoin can substantially reduce the concentrations of delavirdine. This can lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ]. Neuromuscular blocking agents Cisatracurium, pancuronium, rocuronium and vecuronium: resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of the nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents has occurred in patients chronically administered phenytoin. Whether or not phenytoin has the same effect on other non-depolarizing agents is unknown. Prevention or Management: Patients should be monitored closely for more rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade than expected, and infusion rate requirements may be higher. Warfarin Increased and decreased PT/INR responses have been reported when phenytoin is coadministered with warfarin. Other Corticosteroids, doxycycline, estrogens, furosemide, oral contraceptives, paroxetine, quinidine, rifampin, sertraline, theophylline, and vitamin D Drugs whose level is decreased by phenytoin Anticoagulants Apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban Antiepileptic drugsa Carbamazepine, felbamate, lamotrigine, topiramate, oxcarbazepine, lacosamide Antilipidemic agents Atorvastatin, fluvastatin, simvastatin Antiplatelets Ticagrelor Antiviral agents Efavirenz, lopinavir/ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir Fosamprenavir: phenytoin when given with fosamprenavir alone may decrease the concentration of amprenavir, the active metabolite. Phenytoin when given with the combination of fosamprenavir and ritonavir may increase the concentration of amprenavir Calcium channel blockers Nifedipine, nimodipine, nisoldipine, verapamil Other Albendazole (decreases active metabolite), chlorpropamide, clozapine, cyclosporine, digoxin, disopyramide, folic acid, methadone, mexiletine, praziquantel, quetiapine a The effect of phenytoin on phenobarbital, valproic acid and sodium valproate serum levels is unpredictable. 7.3 Hyperammonemia with Concomitant Use of Valproate Concomitant administration of phenytoin and valproate has been associated with an increased risk of valproate-associated hyperammonemia. Patients treated concomitantly with these two drugs should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hyperammonemia. 7.4 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Care should be taken when using immunoanalytical methods to measure serum phenytoin concentrations following fosphenytoin sodium administration.
