Drug: fostemsavir_tromethamine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • See full prescribing information for complete list of significant drug interactions. ( 4 , 7 ) • Doses of oral contraceptives should not contain more than 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol per day. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Potential for RUKOBIA to Affect Other Drugs Temsavir may increase plasma concentrations of grazoprevir or voxilaprevir to a clinically relevant extent due to organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1/3 inhibition [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )] . When RUKOBIA was coadministered with oral contraceptives, temsavir increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol ( Table 3 ) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect RUKOBIA Coadministration of RUKOBIA with rifampin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, significantly decreases temsavir plasma concentrations. The use of RUKOBIA with drugs that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 can significantly decrease temsavir plasma concentrations which may lead to loss of virologic response [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Information regarding potential drug interactions with RUKOBIA is provided in Table 3 . These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse events or loss of efficacy [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 3. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions a ↑ = Increase; ↓ = Decrease; HCV = Hepatitis C virus. a This table is not all inclusive. b See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) for magnitude of interaction. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Temsavir and/or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Androgen receptor inhibitor: Enzalutamide ↓Temsavir Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for loss of therapeutic effect to RUKOBIA [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine Phenytoin ↓Temsavir Antimycobacterial: Rifampin b ↓Temsavir Antineoplastic: Mitotane ↓Temsavir Herbal product: St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) ↓Temsavir Hepatitis C virus direct-acting antivirals: Grazoprevir Voxilaprevir ↑Grazoprevir ↑Voxilaprevir Coadministration may increase exposures of grazoprevir or voxilaprevir; however, the magnitude of increase in exposure is unknown. Increased exposures of grazoprevir may increase the risk of ALT elevations. Use an alternative HCV regimen if possible. Oral contraceptive: Ethinyl estradiol b ↑Ethinyl estradiol Ethinyl estradiol daily dose should not exceed 30 mcg . Caution is advised particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. Statins: Rosuvastatin b Atorvastatin Fluvastatin Pitavastatin Simvastatin ↑Rosuvastatin ↑Atorvastatin ↑Fluvastatin ↑Pitavastatin ↑Simvastatin Use the lowest possible starting dose for statins and monitor for statin-associated adverse events. 7.4 Drugs that Prolong QT Interval Coadministration of RUKOBIA with a drug with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes may increase the risk of Torsade de Pointes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Use RUKOBIA with caution when coadministered with drugs with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes. 7.5 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with RUKOBIA Based on drug interaction study results, the following drugs can be coadministered with RUKOBIA without a dose adjustment: atazanavir/ritonavir, buprenorphine/naloxone, cobicistat, darunavir/cobicistat, darunavir/ritonavir with and without etravirine, etravirine, famotidine, maraviroc, methadone, norethindrone, raltegravir, ritonavir, rifabutin with and without ritonavir, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
