Drug: ganciclovir

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug-drug interaction studies were conducted in patients with normal renal function. Patients with impaired renal function may have increased concentrations of ganciclovir and the coadministered drug following concomitant administration of ganciclovir and drugs excreted by the same pathway as ganciclovir. Therefore, these patients should be closely monitored for toxicity of ganciclovir and the coadministered drug. Established and other potentially significant drug interactions conducted with ganciclovir are listed in Table 6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 6. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions with Ganciclovir Name of the Concomitant Drug Change in the Concentration of Ganciclovir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Imipenem-cilastatin Unknown Coadministration with imipenem­-cilastatin is not recommended because generalized seizures have been reported in patients who received ganciclovir and imipenem-cilastatin. Cyclosporine or amphotericin B Unknown Monitor renal function when ganciclovir is coadministered with cyclosporine or amphotericin B because of potential increase in serum creatinine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) ↔ Ganciclovir (in patients with normal renal function) ↔ MMF (in patients with normal renal function) Based on increased risk, patients should be monitored for hematological and renal toxicity. Other drugs associated with myelosuppresion or nephrotoxicity (e.g., dapsone, doxorubicin, flucytosine, hydroxyurea, pentamidine, tacrolimus, trimethoprim/ sulfamethoxazole, vinblastine, vincristine and zidovudine) Unknown Because of potential for higher toxicity, coadministration with ganciclovir should be considered only if the potential benefits are judged to outweigh the risks. Didanosine ↔ Ganciclovir ↑ Didanosine Patients should be closely monitored for didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis). Probenecid ↑ Ganciclovir Ganciclovir dose may need to be reduced. Monitor for evidence of ganciclovir toxicity. Imipenem-cilastatin: Seizures were reported in patients receiving ganciclovir and imipenem-cilastatin. Concomitant use is not recommended unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks. ( 7 ) Cyclosporine or amphotericin B: When coadministered with ganciclovir, the risk of nephrotoxicity may be increased. Monitor renal function. ( 5.2 , 7 ) Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): When coadministered with ganciclovir, the risk of hematological and renal toxicity may be increased. Monitor for ganciclovir and MMF toxicity. ( 7 ) Other drugs associated with myelosuppression or nephrotoxicity: Due to potential for increased toxicity, such drugs should be considered for concomitant use with ganciclovir only if the potential benefits are judged to outweigh the risks. ( 7 ) Didanosine: Ganciclovir coadministered with didanosine may increase didanosine levels. Monitor for didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis). ( 7 ) Probenecid: May increase ganciclovir levels. Monitor for evidence of ganciclovir toxicity. ( 7 )
