Drug: gefitinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inducer: Increase gefitinib tablets to 500 mg daily in patients receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) CYP3A4 Inhibitor: Monitor adverse reactions if concomitant use with gefitinib tablets. ( 7.1 ) Drugs Affecting Gastric pH: Avoid concomitant use of gefitinib tablets with proton pump inhibitors, if possible. ( 7.1 ) Hemorrhage in patients taking warfarin: Monitor changes in prothrombin time or INR. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs Affecting Gefitinib Exposure CYP3A4 Inducer Drugs that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 increase the metabolism of gefitinib and decrease gefitinib plasma concentrations. Increase gefitinib tablets to 500 mg daily in patients receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, or tricyclic antidepressant) and resume gefitinib tablets at 250 mg 7 days after discontinuation of the strong inducer [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A4 Inhibitor Drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole and itraconazole) decrease gefitinib metabolism and increase gefitinib plasma concentrations. Monitor adverse reactions when administering strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with gefitinib tablets. Drugs Affecting Gastric pH Drugs that elevate gastric pH (e.g., proton pump inhibitors, histamine H2-receptor antagonists, and antacids) may reduce plasma concentrations of gefitinib. Avoid concomitant use of gefitinib tablets with proton pump inhibitors, if possible. If treatment with a proton-pump inhibitor is required, take gefitinib tablets 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of the proton-pump inhibitor. Take gefitinib tablets 6 hours after or 6 hours before an H2-receptor antagonist or an antacid [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Hemorrhage in Patients taking Warfarin International Normalized Ratio (INR) elevations and/or hemorrhage have been reported in some patients taking warfarin while on gefitinib tablets therapy. Patients taking warfarin should be monitored regularly for changes in prothrombin time or INR.
