Drug: gepirone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 displays clinically important drug interactions with EXXUA. Table 3 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with EXXUA CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Concomitant use of EXXUA with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases EXXUA exposure by ~ 5-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increases EXXUA exposure by ~ 2.6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors EXXUA is contraindicated in patients taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors If EXXUA is used with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, reduce the dosage of EXXUA [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of EXXUA with MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention EXXUA is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days. Allow at least 14 days after stopping EXXUA before starting an MAOI [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval may add to the QTc prolonging effects of EXXUA and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias. Intervention Monitor patients with ECGs more frequently if EXXUA is administered with other drugs known to prolong QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact Concomitant use of EXXUA with a strong CYP3A4 inducer reduces EXXUA exposure by 20- to 29-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Avoid concomitant use of EXXUA in patients taking strong CYP3A4 inducers. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of EXXUA and serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when EXXUA is used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of EXXUA and/or concomitant serotonergic drug [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduces EXXUA exposure. Avoid concomitant use ( 7 ).
