Drug: gilteritinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Combined P-gp and Strong CYP3A Inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • Strong CYP3A Inhibitors: Consider alternative therapies. If the concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors cannot be avoided, monitor patients more frequently for XOSPATA adverse reactions. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) • P-gp, BCRP, OCT1 Substrates: Decrease the dose of the substrates when coadministered with gilteritinib and as clinically indicated. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on XOSPATA Combined P-gp and Strong CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of XOSPATA with a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer decreases gilteritinib exposure which may decrease XOSPATA efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Avoid concomitant use of XOSPATA with combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducers. Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of XOSPATA with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increases gilteritinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Consider alternative therapies that are not strong CYP3A inhibitors. If the concomitant use of these inhibitors is considered essential for the care of the patient, monitor patient more frequently for XOSPATA adverse reactions. Interrupt and reduce XOSPATA dosage in patients with serious or life-threatening toxicity [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . 7.2 Effect of XOSPATA on Other Drugs Drugs that Target 5HT2B Receptor or Sigma Nonspecific Receptor Concomitant use of gilteritinib may reduce the effects of drugs that target the 5HT 2B receptor or the sigma nonspecific receptor (e.g., escitalopram, fluoxetine, sertraline). Avoid concomitant use of these drugs with XOSPATA unless their use is considered essential for the care of the patient [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . P-gp, BCRP, and OCT1 Substrates Based on in vitro data, gilteritinib is a P-gp, breast cancer resistant protein (BCRP), and organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1) inhibitor. Coadministration of gilteritinib may increase the exposure of P-gp, BCRP, and OCT1 substrates, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. For P-gp, BCRP, or OCT1 substrates where small concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions, decrease the dose or modify the dosing frequency of such substrate and monitor for adverse reactions as recommended in the respective prescribing information.
