Drug: glasdegib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5. Drug Interactions with DAURISMO Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact • Co-administration of DAURISMO with strong CYP3A inhibitors increased glasdegib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. • Increased glasdegib concentrations may increase the risk of adverse reactions including QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Prevention or Management • Consider alternative therapies that are not strong CYP3A4 inhibitors during treatment with DAURISMO. • Monitor patients for increased risk of adverse reactions including QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact Co-administration of DAURISMO with strong and moderate CYP3A inducers decreased glasdegib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . • Decreased glasdegib concentrations may reduce efficacy. Prevention or Management • Avoid co-administration of DAURISMO with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers. • If co-administration of DAURISMO with moderate CYP3A4 inducers cannot be avoided, increase the dose of DAURISMO [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . QTc Prolonging Drugs Clinical Impact Co-administration of DAURISMO with QTc prolonging drugs may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Prevention or Management • Avoid co-administration of QTc prolonging drugs with DAURISMO or replace with alternative therapies. • If co-administration of a QTc prolonging drug is unavoidable, monitor patients for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Consider alternative therapies that are not strong CYP3A4 inhibitors or monitor for increased risk of adverse reactions, including QTc interval prolongation. ( 7 ) • Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use with DAURISMO. ( 7 ) • Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use with DAURISMO. If, concomitant use cannot be avoided, increase the dose of DAURISMO. ( 2.3 , 7 ) • QTc Prolonging Drugs: Avoid co-administration with DAURISMO. If co-administration is unavoidable, monitor for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation. ( 7 )
