Drug: glyburide-metformin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 presents clinically significant drug interactions with glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with glyburide and metformin hydrochloride may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Intervention: Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Examples: Topiramate, zonisamide, acetazolamide and dichlorphenamide. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Examples: Ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine. Alcohol Clinical Impact: Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Intervention: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Drugs that potentiate the hypoglycemic action of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride Clinical Impact: Certain drugs may potentiate the hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas, one of the components of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Intervention: Closely observe patient for hypoglycemia during co-administration and for loss of glycemic control when withdrawing these agents. Examples: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents and other highly protein-boind drugs, salicylcates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, beta-adrenergic blocking agents; potentially with ciprofloxacin, micronazole. Bosentan Clinical Impact: Increased risk of liver enzyme elevations was observed. Intervention: Concomitant administration is contraindicated. Colesevalam Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration may led to reduced glyburide absorption (AUC and Cmax: -32% and -47%, respectively). Intervention: Glyburide and metformin hydrochloride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Drugs Reducing Glycemic Control Clinical Impact: Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. Intervention: When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glyburide and metformin hydrochloride observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glyburide and metformin hydrochloride, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Examples: Thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blockers, and isoniazid. • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. ( 7 ) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. ( 7 ) • Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. ( 7 ) • The hypoglycemic action of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets may be potentiated by certain drugs. ( 7 ) • Concomitant administration of colesevalam may led to reduced glyburide absorption. ( 7 )
