Drug: haloperidol_lactate

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Drug-drug interactions can be pharmacodynamic (combined pharmacologic effects) or pharmacokinetic (alteration of plasma levels). The risks of using haloperidol in combination with other drugs have been evaluated as described below. Pharmacodynamic Interactions Since QTc interval-prolongation has been observed during haloperidol treatment, caution is advised when prescribing to a patient with QT-prolongation conditions or to patients receiving medications known to prolong the QTc-interval (see WARNINGS, Cardiovascular Effects ). Examples include (but are not limited to): Class 1A antiarrhythmics (e.g., procainamide, quinidine, disopyramide); Class 3 antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol); and other drugs such as citalopram, erythromycin, levofloxacin, methadone, and ziprasidone. Caution is advised when haloperidol is used in combination with drugs known to cause electrolyte imbalance (e.g., diuretics or corticosteroids) because hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia are risk factors for QT prolongation. Haloperidol may impair the antiparkinson effects of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If concomitant antiparkinson medication is required, it may have to be continued after haloperidol is discontinued because of the difference in excretion rates. If both are discontinued simultaneously, extrapyramidal symptoms may occur. The physician should keep in mind the possible increase in intraocular pressure when anticholinergic drugs, including antiparkinson agents, are administered concomitantly with haloperidol. As with other antipsychotic agents, it should be noted that haloperidol may be capable of potentiating CNS depressants such as anesthetics, opioids, and alcohol. Pharmacokinetic Interactions Drugs that May Increase Haloperidol Plasma Concentrations Haloperidol is metabolized by several routes. The major pathways are glucuronidation and ketone reduction. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is also involved, particularly CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2D6. Inhibition of these routes of metabolism by another drug or a decrease in CYP2D6 enzyme may result in increased haloperidol concentrations. The effect of CYP3A4 inhibition and of decreased CYP2D6 enzyme activity may be additive. The haloperidol plasma concentrations increased when a CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 inhibitor was coadministered with haloperidol. Examples include: CYP3A4 inhibitors – alprazolam; itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, ritonavir. CYP2D6 inhibitors – chlorpromazine; promethazine; quinidine; paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine. Combined CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors – fluoxetine, fluvoxamine; ritonavir. Buspirone. Increased haloperidol plasma concentrations may result in an increased risk of adverse events, including QTc interval prolongation (see WARNINGS – Cardiovascular Effects ). Increases in QTc have been observed when haloperidol was given with a combination of the metabolic inhibitors ketoconazole (400 mg/day) and paroxetine (20 mg/day). It is recommended that patients who take haloperidol concomitantly with such medicinal products be monitored for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of haloperidol, and the haloperidol dose be decreased as deemed necessary. Valproate: Sodium valproate, a drug known to inhibit glucuronidation, does not affect haloperidol plasma concentrations. Drugs that May Decrease Haloperidol Plasma Concentrations Coadministration of haloperidol with potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 may gradually decrease the plasma concentrations of haloperidol to such an extent that efficacy may be reduced. Examples include (but are not limited to): carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, St John's Wort ( Hypericum, perforatum ). Rifampin: In a study of 12 patients with schizophrenia coadministered oral haloperidol and rifampin, plasma haloperidol levels were decreased by a mean of 70% and mean scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale were increased from baseline. In 5 other patients with schizophrenia treated with oral haloperidol and rifampin, discontinuation of rifampin produced a mean 3.3-fold increase in haloperidol concentrations. Carbamazepine: In a study in 11 patients with schizophrenia coadministered haloperidol and increasing doses of carbamazepine, haloperidol plasma concentrations decreased linearly with increasing carbamazepine concentrations. During combination treatment with inducers of CYP3A4, it is recommended that patients be monitored and the haloperidol dose increased as deemed necessary. After withdrawal of the CYP3A4 inducer, the concentration of haloperidol may gradually increase and therefore it may be necessary to reduce the dose of haloperidol. Effect of Haloperidol on Other Drugs Haloperidol is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Plasma concentrations of CYP2D6 substrates (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants such as desipramine or imipramine) may increase when they are co-administered with haloperidol.
