Drug: hydroxyurea

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiretroviral drugs (7.1) Laboratory Test Interference. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Increased Toxicity with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis In patients with HIV infection during therapy with hydroxyurea and didanosine, with or without stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis have occurred. Hydroxyurea is not indicated for the treatment of HIV infection; however, if patients with HIV infection are treated with hydroxyurea, and in particular, in combination with didanosine and/or stavudine, close monitoring for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis is recommended. Permanently discontinue therapy with hydroxyurea in patients who develop signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure resulting in death have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients with HIV infection treated with hydroxyurea and other antiretroviral drugs. Fatal hepatic events were reported most often in patients treated with the combination of hydroxyurea, didanosine, and stavudine. Avoid this combination. Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy, which was severe in some cases, has been reported in patients with HIV infection receiving hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine, with or without stavudine. 7.2 Laboratory Test Interference Interference with Uric Acid, Urea, or Lactic Acid Assays Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxyurea with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactate dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid, and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxyurea. Interference with Continuous Glucose Monitoring Systems Hydroxyurea may falsely elevate sensor glucose results from certain continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems and may lead to hypoglycemia if sensor glucose results are relied upon to dose insulin. If a patient using a CGM is to be prescribed hydroxyurea, consult with the CGM prescriber about alternative glucose monitoring methods.
