Drug: hydrocodone_bitartrate_and_ibuprofen

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of hydrocodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are achieved (see WARNINGS: Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will decrease (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics ), resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Ibuprofen Tablets. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider a dosage increase of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of hydrocodone (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics ), resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to hydrocodone (see WARNINGS: Withdrawal ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will increase (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics ), which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a dosage increase of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin) and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine,metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma). If urgent use of an opioid is necessary with MAOIs such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. The use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics such as pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Ibuprofen Tablets may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone. Anticholinergics The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis Ibuprofen and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of ibuprofen and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Monitor patients with concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), SSRIs, and SNRIs for signs of bleeding (see WARNINGS: Hematologic Toxicity ). Aspirin Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg, given three times daily, is administered with enteric coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even following a once-daily regimen of ibuprofen 400 mg, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin [see Clinical Pharmacology/Pharmacodynamics ]. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, where appropriate. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding (see WARNINGS: Hematologic Toxicity ). ACE-Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-blockers NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). During concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Evaluate for signs of worsening renal function (see WARNINGS: Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia ). These effects are usually reversible. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (see WARNINGS: Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia ). Digoxin The concomitant use of ibuprofen with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. During concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium concentration and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and lithium, evaluate patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). During concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and methotrexate, evaluate patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. During concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and cyclosporine, evaluate patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Concomitant use of ibuprofen with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation). The concomitant use of ibuprofen with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and Pemetrexed may increase the risk of Pemetrexed associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the Pemetrexed prescribing information). During concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and Pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of Pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between Pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following Pemetrexed administration.
