Drug: hydrocodone_polistirex_and_chlorpheniramine_polistirex

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug interaction studies have been conducted with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex. Phenytoin : Avoid concomitant use; may increase phenytoin levels. ( 7.4 ) Serotonergic drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7.6 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of hydrocodone. Avoid concomitant use in patients receiving MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. ( 7.7 ) Muscle relaxants : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.8 ) Diuretics : Hydrocodone may reduce the efficacy of diuretics. Monitor for reduced effect. ( 7.9 ) Anticholinergic drugs : Concomitant use may cause paralytic ileus. ( 5.9 , 7.10 ) 7.1 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex can result in an increase of hydrocodone plasma levels and potentially fatal overdose of hydrocodone. Instruct patients not to consume alcoholic beverages or use prescription or nonprescription products containing alcohol while on Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), or protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of hydrocodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex is achieved [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 ) ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will decrease [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex while taking a CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitor. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. 7.3 CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex and CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampin, carbamazepine, or phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of hydrocodone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to hydrocodone [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will increase [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers. If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy. 7.4 Phenytoin Adverse event reports in the literature suggest a possible drug interaction involving increased serum phenytoin levels and phenytoin toxicity when chlorpheniramine and phenytoin are co-administered. The exact mechanism for this interaction is not known, however it is believed that chlorpheniramine may inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking phenytoin. 7.5 Benzodiazepines, and Other CNS Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ], and instruct patients to avoid consumption of alcohol while on Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex [ see Drug Interactions (7.1 ) , Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 7.6 Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation. Discontinue Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex if serotonin syndrome is suspected. 7.7 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or have taken MAOIs within 14 days. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone, one of the active ingredients in Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma). 7.8 Muscle Relaxants Hydrocodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients taking muscle relaxants. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected. 7.9 Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. 7.10 Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ].Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine.
