Drug: hydroxychloroquine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs. ( 7.1 ) See FPI for more important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine sulfate prolongs the QT interval. There may be an increased risk of inducing ventricular arrhythmias if hydroxychloroquine sulfate is used concomitantly with other arrhythmogenic drugs. Therefore, hydroxychloroquine sulfate is not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 Insulin or Other Antidiabetic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine sulfate may enhance the effects of insulin and antidiabetic drugs, and consequently increase the hypoglycemic risk. Therefore, a decrease in dosage of insulin and other antidiabetic drugs may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.3 Drugs that Lower the Seizure Threshold Hydroxychloroquine sulfate can lower the seizure threshold. Co-administration of hydroxychloroquine sulfate with other antimalarials known to lower the seizure threshold (e.g., mefloquine) may increase the risk of seizures. 7.4 Antiepileptics The activity of antiepileptic drugs might be impaired if co-administered with hydroxychloroquine sulfate. 7.5 Methotrexate Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine sulfate and methotrexate may increase the incidence of adverse reactions. 7.6 Cyclosporine An increased plasma cyclosporin level was reported when cyclosporin and hydroxychloroquine sulfate were co-administered. Monitor serum cyclosporine levels closely in patients receiving combined therapy. 7.7 Digoxin Concomitant hydroxychloroquine sulfate and digoxin therapy may result in increased serum digoxin levels. Monitor serum digoxin levels closely in patients receiving combined therapy. 7.8 Cimetidine Concomitant use of cimetidine resulted in a 2-fold increase of exposure of chloroquine, which is structurally related to hydroxychloroquine. Interaction of cimetidine with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out. Avoid concomitant use of cimetidine. 7.9 Rifampicin Lack of efficacy of hydroxychloroquine was reported when rifampicin was concomitantly administered. Avoid concomitant use of rifampicin. 7.10 Praziquantel Chloroquine has been reported to reduce the bioavailability of praziquantel. Interaction of praziquantel with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out. 7.11 Antacids and kaolin Antacids and kaolin can reduce absorption of chloroquine; an interval of at least 4 hours between intake of these agents and chloroquine should be observed. Interaction of antacids and kaolin with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out. 7.12 Ampicillin In a study of healthy volunteers, chloroquine significantly reduced the bioavailability of ampicillin. Interaction of ampicillin with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out.
