Drug: hydrocodone_bitartrate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes clinically significant drug interactions with hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Hydrocodone Bitartrate Extended-Release Tablets Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of hydrocodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Assess for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir). CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of hydrocodone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to hydrocodone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablet dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablet dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Intervention: The use of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: Phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Hydrocodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 ) ] . Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Strong Laxatives Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, may decrease hydrocodone absorption and result in decreased hydrocodone plasma levels. Intervention: If hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets are used in these patients, regularly evaluate for the development of adverse events as well as changing analgesic requirements. Example: lactulose Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonists/Antagonists and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) : Can potentiate the effects of hydrocodone. Avoid concomitant use in patients receiving MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. ( 7 )
