Drug: ibuprofen_famotidine

=== Drug Interactions ===
See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with ibuprofen. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Ibuprofen and Famotidine Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Ibuprofen and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of ibuprofen and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Pharmacodynamic (PD) studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg, given three times daily, is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even following a once-daily regimen of ibuprofen 400 mg, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once-daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, where appropriate. Concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Ibuprofen and famotidine tablet is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta- blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of ibuprofen with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations of plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ibuprofen and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ibuprofen with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: The concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ibuprofen and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between permetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Clinical Impact Because famotidine lowers intra-gastric acidity, this may result in reduced absorption and loss of efficacy of concomitant drugs. Intervention Concomitant administration of ibuprofen and famotidine tablet is not recommended with dasatinib, delavirdine mesylate, cefditoren, and fosamprenavir. For administration instructions of other drugs whose absorption is dependent on gastric pH, refer to their prescribing information (e.g., atazanavir, erlotinib, ketoconazole, itraconazole, nilotinib, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, and rilpivirine). Tizanidine (CYP1A2 Substrate) Clinical Impact Famotidine is considered a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor and may lead to substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine, a CYP1A2 substrate. Intervention Avoid concomitant use with ibuprofen and famotidine tablet. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for hypotension, bradycardia or excessive drowsiness. Refer to the full prescribing information for tizanidine.
