Drug: iloperidone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The dose of FANAPT should be reduced in patients co-administered a strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitor. ( 2.2 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with FANAPT Table 7 presents clinically important drug interactions with FANAPT. Table 7: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with FANAPT Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Coadministration of fluoxetine with iloperidone increased exposure (area under curve, [AUC]) of iloperidone and its metabolite P88, by about 2- to 3- fold, and decreased the AUC of its metabolite P95 by one-half [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 , 12.5) ] . Coadministration of paroxetine with iloperidone resulted in increased mean steady-state peak concentrations of iloperidone and its metabolite P88, by about 1.6- fold, and decreased mean steady-state peak concentrations of its metabolite P95 by one-half [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 , 12.5) ] . Intervention Reduce the dose of FANAPT by one-half when administered with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. When a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the iloperidone dose should be returned to the previous level [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Co-administration of ketoconazole with iloperidone, increased the AUC of iloperidone and its metabolites P88 and P95 by 57%, 55%, and 35%, respectively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Reduce the dose of FANAPT by one-half when administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the FANAPT dose should be returned to the previous level [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Concomitant use of Strong CYP2D6 and Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Coadministration of iloperidone with paroxetine and ketoconazole resulted in a 1.4- fold increase in steady-state concentrations of iloperidone and its metabolite P88 and a 1.4- fold decrease in the P95 in the presence of paroxetine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Coadministration of FANAPT with inhibitors of both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 did not add to the effect of either inhibitor given alone. Reduce the dose of FANAPT by about one-half if administered concomitantly with both a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor same as if it is coadministered with only one inhibitor. When the inhibitors of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 are withdrawn from the combination therapy, the FANAPT dose should be returned to the previous level [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . 7.2 Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval may add to the QT effects of FANAPT and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Avoid the use of FANAPT in combination with any other drugs that prolong the QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.3 Drugs that Lower Blood Pressure Concomitant use of FANAPT with medications that lower blood pressure could potentially cause symptomatic hypotension. Avoid coadministration of FANAPT with alpha-adrenergic blocking agents and adjust medications that affect blood pressure as needed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] .
