Drug: imatinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP3A4 inducers may decrease imatinib mesylate tablets Cmax and area under curve (AUC). ( 2.12 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase imatinib mesylate tablets Cmax and AUC. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) • Imatinib mesylate tablets are an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 which may increase the Cmax and AUC of other drugs. ( 7.3 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) • Patients who require anticoagulation should receive low-molecular weight or standard heparin and not warfarin. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Agents Inducing CYP3A Metabolism Concomitant administration of imatinib mesylate tablets and strong CYP3A4 inducers may reduce total exposure of imatinib; consider alternative agents [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Agents Inhibiting CYP3A Metabolism Concomitant administration of imatinib mesylate tablets and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may result in a significant imatinib exposure increase. Grapefruit juice may also increase plasma concentrations of imatinib; avoid grapefruit juice [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Interactions With Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4 Imatinib mesylate tablets will increase plasma concentration of CYP3A4 metabolized drugs (e.g., triazolo-benzodiazepines, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, certain HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, etc.). Use caution when administering imatinib mesylate tablets with CYP3A4 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic window. Because warfarin is metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, use low-molecular weight or standard heparin instead of warfarin in patients who require anticoagulation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Interactions With Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Use caution when administering imatinib mesylate tablets with CYP2D6 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic window.
Drug Interactions Agents Inducing CYP3A Metabolism Pretreatment of healthy volunteers with multiple doses of rifampin followed by a single dose of imatinib mesylate tablets, increased imatinib mesylate tablets oral-dose clearance by 3.8-fold, which significantly (p less than 0.05) decreased mean C max and AUC. Similar findings were observed in patients receiving 400 to 1200 mg/day imatinib mesylate tablets concomitantly with enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAED) (e.g., carbamazepine, oxcarbamazepine, phenytoin, fosphenytoin, phenobarbital, and primidone). The mean dose normalized AUC for imatinib in the patients receiving EIAED’s decreased by 73% compared to patients not receiving EIAED. Concomitant administration of imatinib mesylate tablets and St. John’s Wort led to a 30% reduction in the AUC of imatinib. Consider alternative therapeutic agents with less enzyme induction potential in patients when rifampin or other CYP3A4 inducers are indicated. Imatinib mesylate tablets doses up to 1,200 mg/day (600 mg twice daily) have been given to patients receiving concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.12) ] . Agents Inhibiting CYP3A Metabolism There was a significant increase in exposure to imatinib (mean Cmax and AUC increased by 26% and 40%, respectively) in healthy subjects when imatinib mesylate tablets were coadministered with a single dose of ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor). Caution is recommended when administering imatinib mesylate tablets with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, atazanavir, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, and voriconazole). Grapefruit juice may also increase plasma concentrations of imatinib and should be avoided. Interactions with Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4 Imatinib mesylate tablets increase the mean C max and AUC of simvastatin (CYP3A4 substrate) 2- and 3.5-fold, respectively, suggesting an inhibition of the CYP3A4 by imatinib mesylate tablets. Particular caution is recommended when administering imatinib mesylate tablets with CYP3A4 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic window (e.g., alfentanil, cyclosporine, diergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus, or tacrolimus). Imatinib mesylate tablets will increase plasma concentration of other CYP3A4 metabolized drugs (e.g., triazolo-benzodiazepines, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, certain HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, etc.). Because warfarin is metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, patients who require anticoagulation should receive low-molecular weight or standard heparin instead of warfarin. Interactions with Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Imatinib mesylate tablets increased the mean C max and AUC of metoprolol by approximately 23% suggesting that imatinib mesylate tablets have a weak inhibitory effect on CYP2D6-mediated metabolism. No dose adjustment is necessary, however, caution is recommended when administering imatinib mesylate tablets with CYP2D6 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic window. Interactions with Acetaminophen In vitro, imatinib mesylate tablets inhibit the acetaminophen O-glucuronidate pathway (K i 58.5 μM). Coadministration of imatinib mesylate tablets (400 mg/day for 8 days) with acetaminophen (1,000 mg single dose on Day 8) in patients with CML did not result in any changes in the pharmacokinetics of acetaminophen. Imatinib mesylate tablets pharmacokinetics were not altered in the presence of single-dose acetaminophen. There is no pharmacokinetic or safety data on the concomitant use of imatinib mesylate tablets at doses greater than 400 mg/day or the chronic use of concomitant acetaminophen and imatinib mesylate tablets.
