Drug: imatinib_oral

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP3A4 inducers: Avoid or increase imatinib dosage if unavoidable. ( 7.1 ) • CYP3A4 inhibitors: Use caution. Avoid grapefruit juice. ( 7.2 ) • CYP3A4 substrates: Use caution. Patients who require anticoagulation should receive other anticoagulants instead of warfarin. ( 7.3 ) • CYP2D6 substrates: Use caution. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Agents Inducing CYP3A Metabolism Consider alternative therapeutic agents with less enzyme induction potential in patients when rifampin or other strong CYP3A4 inducers are indicated for concomitant use with Imkeldi. The dosage of Imkeldi should be increased if concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inducer is required [see Dosage and Administration (2.12) ] . Imatinib is a CYP3A substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inducer decreases imatinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which may reduce imatinib efficacy . 7.2 Agents Inhibiting CYP3A Metabolism Caution is recommended when administering Imkeldi with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Grapefruit juice should be avoided. Imatinib is a CYP3A substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increases imatinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of Imkeldi adverse reactions. 7.3 Interactions With Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4 Use caution when administering Imkeldi with CYP3A4 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Because warfarin is metabolized by both CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, use other anti-coagulants instead of warfarin in patients receiving Imkeldi who require anticoagulation. Imatinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Imatinib increases exposure of CYP3A substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. 7.4 Interactions With Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Use caution when administering Imkeldi with CYP2D6 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Imatinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Imatinib increases exposure of CYP2D6 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates.
