Drug: imipenem_and_cilastatin_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ganciclovir: Generalized seizures have been reported in patients who received ganciclovir. Do not co-administer unless benefit outweighs risk ( 7.1 ). Probenecid: Concomitant administration of Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.) and probenecid results in increases in the plasma level and half-life of imipenem. Concomitant administration is not recommended ( 7.2 ). Valproic acid/divalproex sodium: Concomitant use with Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.) is generally not recommended. Consider other antibacterial drugs to treat infections in patients whose seizures are well-controlled on valproic acid or divalproex sodium ( 5.3 , 7.3 ). 7.1 Ganciclovir Generalized seizures have been reported in patients who received ganciclovir and Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.). These drugs should not be used concomitantly with Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.) unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks. 7.2 Probenecid Concomitant administration of Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.) and probenecid results in increases in the plasma level and half-life of imipenem. Therefore, it is not recommended that probenecid be given concomitantly with Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.). 7.3 Valproic Acid Case reports in the literature have shown that co-administration of carbapenems, including Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.), to patients receiving valproic acid or divalproex sodium results in a reduction in valproic acid concentrations. The valproic acid concentrations may drop below the therapeutic range as a result of this interaction, therefore increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures. Although the mechanism of this interaction is unknown, data from in vitro and animal studies suggest that carbapenems may inhibit the hydrolysis of valproic acid's glucuronide metabolite (VPA-g) back to valproic acid, thus decreasing the serum concentrations of valproic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. The concomitant use of Imipenem and Cilastatin for Injection (I.V.) and valproic acid/divalproex sodium is generally not recommended. Antibacterials other than carbapenems should be considered to treat infections in patients whose seizures are well-controlled on valproic acid or divalproex sodium.
