Drug: insulin_glargine-yfgn

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 8 includes clinically significant drug interactions with SEMGLEE. Table 8: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with SEMGLEE Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Antidiabetic agents, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blocking agents, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, pentoxifylline, pramlintide, salicylates, somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide), sulfonamide antibiotics,GLP-1 receptor agonists, DPP-4 inhibitors, and SGLT-2 inhibitors. Intervention: Dosage reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SEMGLEE is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of SEMGLEE Drugs: Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), corticosteroids, danazol, diuretics, estrogens, glucagon, isoniazid, niacin, oral contraceptives, phenothiazines, progestogens (e.g., in oral contraceptives), protease inhibitors, somatropin, sympathomimetic agents (e.g., albuterol, epinephrine, terbutaline), and thyroid hormones. Intervention: Dosage increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SEMGLEE is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of SEMGLEE Drugs: Alcohol, beta-blockers, clonidine, and lithium salts. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia, which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia. Intervention: Dosage adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SEMGLEE is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SEMGLEE is coadministered with these drugs. • Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed. ( 7 ) • Antiadrenergic Drugs (e.g., beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine): Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent. ( 7 ) * Biosimilar means that the biological product is approved based on data demonstrating that it is highly similar to an FDA-approved biological product, known as a reference product, and that there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar product and the reference product. Biosimilarity of SEMGLEE has been demonstrated for the condition(s) of use (e.g., indication(s), dosing regimen(s)), strength(s), dosage form(s), and route(s) of administration described in its Full Prescribing Information.
