Drug: insulin_degludec

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 includes clinically significant drug interactions with TRESIBA. Table 5: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with TRESIBA Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Antidiabetic agents, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blocking agents, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, pentoxifylline, pramlintide, salicylates, somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide), and sulfonamide antibiotics, GLP-1 receptor agonists, DPP-4 inhibitors, SGLT-2 inhibitors. Intervention: Dosage reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when TRESIBA is co-administered with these drugs. Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of TRESIBA Drugs: Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), corticosteroids, danazol, diuretics, estrogens, glucagon, isoniazid, niacin, oral contraceptives, phenothiazines, progestogens (e.g., in oral contraceptives), protease inhibitors, somatropin, sympathomimetic agents (e.g., albuterol, epinephrine, terbutaline), and thyroid hormones. Intervention: Dosage increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when TRESIBA is co-administered with these drugs. Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of TRESIBA Drugs: Alcohol, beta-blockers, clonidine, and lithium salts. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia, which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia. Intervention: Dosage adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when TRESIBA is co-administered with these drugs. Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when TRESIBA is co-administered with these drugs. • Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism: Adjustment of insulin dosage mey be needed. ( 7 ) • Antiandrenergic Drugs (e.g., beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine): Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent. ( 5.3 , 7 )
