Drug: insulin_degludec_and_liraglutide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that affect glucose metabolism : Adjustment of XULTOPHY 100/3.6 dosage may be needed; closely monitor blood glucose. ( 7.1 ) • Anti-Adrenergic drugs (e.g., beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine): Hypoglycemia signs and symptoms may be reduced or absent. ( 7.1 ) • Effects of delayed gastric emptying on oral medications : May impact absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Medications that Can Affect Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require dose adjustment of XULTOPHY 100/3.6 and particularly close monitoring [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Antidiabetic agents, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blocking agents, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, pentoxifylline, pramlintide, salicylates, somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide), and sulfonamide antibiotics Intervention: Dosage reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when XULTOPHY 100/3.6 is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of XULTOPHY 100/3.6 Drugs: Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), corticosteroids, danazol, diuretics, estrogens, glucagon, isoniazid, niacin, oral contraceptives, phenothiazines, progestogens (e.g., in oral contraceptives), protease inhibitors, somatropin, sympathomimetic agents (e.g., albuterol, epinephrine, terbutaline), and thyroid hormones. Intervention: Dosage increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when XULTOPHY 100/3.6 is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of XULTOPHY 100/3.6 Drugs: Alcohol, beta-blockers, clonidine, and lithium salts. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia, which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia. Intervention: Dosage adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when XULTOPHY 100/3.6 is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when XULTOPHY 100/3.6 is coadministered with these drugs. 7.2 Effects of Delayed Gastric Emptying on Oral Medications Liraglutide-containing products, including XULTOPHY 100/3.6, cause a delay of gastric emptying, and thereby have the potential to impact the absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications. In clinical pharmacology trials, liraglutide did not affect the absorption of the tested orally administered medications to any clinically relevant degree [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Nonetheless, caution should be exercised when oral medications are concomitantly administered with liraglutide containing products.
