Drug: insulin_glargine-aglr

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 8 includes clinically significant drug interactions with REZVOGLAR. Table 8: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with REZVOGLAR Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Antidiabetic agents, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blocking agents, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, pentoxifylline, pramlintide, salicylates, somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide), sulfonamide antibiotics. GLP-1 receptor agonists, DPP-4 inhibitors, and SGLT-2 inhibitors. Intervention: Dosage reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when REZVOGLAR is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of REZVOGLAR Drugs: Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), corticosteroids, danazol, diuretics, estrogens, glucagon, isoniazid, niacin, oral contraceptives, phenothiazines, progestogens (e.g., in oral contraceptives), protease inhibitors, somatropin, sympathomimetic agents (e.g., albuterol, epinephrine, terbutaline), and thyroid hormones. Intervention: Dosage increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when REZVOGLAR is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of REZVOGLAR Drugs: Alcohol, beta-blockers, clonidine, and lithium salts. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia, which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia. Intervention: Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when REZVOGLAR is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when REZVOGLAR is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs that affect glucose metabolism: Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed. ( 7 ) Antiadrenergic Drugs (e.g., beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine): Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent. ( 5.3 , 7 )
