Drug: insulin_glargine_and_lixisenatide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that affect glucose metabolism : Adjustment of SOLIQUA 100/33 dosage may be needed; closely monitor blood glucose. ( 7.1 ) Antiadrenergic Drugs (e.g., beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine): Hypoglycemia signs and symptoms may be reduced. ( 7.1 ) Effects of delayed gastric emptying on oral medications : Lixisenatide delays gastric emptying which may impact absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications. Oral contraceptives and other medications such as antibiotics and acetaminophen should be taken at least 1 hour prior to SOLIQUA 100/33 administration or 11 hours after. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Medications that Can Affect Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require dose adjustment of SOLIQUA 100/33 and particularly close monitoring. Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Antidiabetic agents, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blocking agents, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, pentoxifylline, pramlintide, salicylates, somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide), and sulfonamide antibiotics. Intervention: Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SOLIQUA 100/33 is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of SOLIQUA 100/33 Drugs: Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), corticosteroids, danazol, diuretics, estrogens, glucagon, isoniazid, niacin, oral contraceptives, phenothiazines, progestogens (e.g., in oral contraceptives), protease inhibitors, somatropin, sympathomimetic agents (e.g., albuterol, epinephrine, terbutaline), and thyroid hormones. Intervention: Dose increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SOLIQUA 100/33 is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of SOLIQUA 100/33 Drugs: Alcohol, beta-blockers, clonidine, and lithium salts. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia, which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia. Intervention: Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SOLIQUA 100/33 is coadministered with these drugs. Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when SOLIQUA 100/33 is coadministered with these drugs. 7.2 Effects of Delayed Gastric Emptying on Oral Medications Lixisenatide-containing products, including SOLIQUA 100/33, delay gastric emptying which may reduce the rate of absorption of orally administered medications. Use caution when coadministering oral medications that have a narrow therapeutic ratio or that require careful clinical monitoring. These medications should be adequately monitored when concomitantly administered with lixisenatide. If such medications are to be administered with food, patients should be advised to take them with a meal or snack when lixisenatide is not administered. Antibiotics, acetaminophen, or other medications that are particularly dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy or for which a delay in effect is undesirable should be administered at least 1 hour before SOLIQUA 100/33 injection [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Oral contraceptives should be taken at least 1 hour before SOLIQUA 100/33 administration or 11 hours after [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
