Drug: insulin_aspart_injection

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 includes clinically significant drug interactions with FIASP. Table 5. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with FIASP Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Antidiabetic agents, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blocking agents, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, pentoxifylline, pramlintide, salicylates, somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide), and sulfonamide antibiotics. Intervention: Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when FIASP is co-administered with these drugs. Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of FIASP Drugs: Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), corticosteroids, danazol, diuretics, estrogens, glucagon, isoniazid, niacin, oral contraceptives, phenothiazines, progestogens (e.g., in oral contraceptives), protease inhibitors, somatropin, sympathomimetic agents (e.g., albuterol, epinephrine, terbutaline), and thyroid hormones. Intervention: Dose increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when FIASP is co-administered with these drugs. Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of FIASP Drugs: Alcohol, beta-blockers, clonidine, and lithium salts. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia, which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia. Intervention: Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when FIASP is co-administered with these drugs. Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs: Beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when FIASP is co-administered with these drugs. • Drugs that Increase Hypoglycemia Risk or Increase or Decrease Blood Glucose Lowering Effect: Adjustment of dosage may be needed; closely monitor blood glucose ( 7 ). • Drugs that Blunt Hypoglycemia Signs and Symptoms (e.g., beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine) : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required ( 7 ).
