Drug: iodixanol

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions Metformin In patients with renal impairment, metformin can cause lactic acidosis. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function. Stop metformin at the time of, or prior to, VISIPAQUE administration in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment, alcoholism or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure, and reinstitute metformin only after renal function is stable. Radioactive Iodine Administration of iodinated contrast agents may interfere with thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine (I-131 and I-123) and decrease therapeutic and diagnostic efficacy in patients with carcinoma of the thyroid. The decrease in efficacy lasts for 6 to 8 weeks. Beta-adrenergic Blocking Agents The use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents lowers the threshold for and increases the severity of contrast reactions, and reduces the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine. Because of the risk of hypersensitivity reactions, use caution when administering VISIPAQUE to patients taking beta-blockers. Oral Cholecystographic Contrast Agents Renal toxicity has been reported in patients with liver dysfunction who were given an oral cholecystographic agent followed by intravascular iodinated contrast agents. Postpone the administration of VISIPAQUE in patients who have recently received an oral cholecystographic contrast agent. 7.2 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Effect on Thyroid Tests The results of protein bound iodine and radioactive iodine uptake studies, which depend on iodine estimation, will not accurately reflect thyroid function for at least 16 days following administration of iodinated contrast agents. However, thyroid function tests which do not depend on iodine estimations (e.g., T3 resin uptake and total or free thyroxine T4 assays) are not affected. Effect on Urine Tests As reported with other contrast agents, VISIPAQUE may produce a false-positive result for protein in the urine using urine dip tests. However, the Coomassie blue method has been shown to give accurate results for the measurement of urine protein in the presence of VISIPAQUE. In addition, care should be used in interpreting the results of urine specific gravity measurements in the presence of high levels of VISIPAQUE and other contrast agents in the urine. Refractometry or urine osmolality may be substituted.
