Drug: isotretinoin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Vitamin A : may cause additive adverse reactions ( 7.1 ) Tetracyclines : avoid concomitant use ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Vitamin A Isotretinoin capsules are closely related to vitamin A. Therefore, the use of both vitamin A and isotretinoin capsules at the same time may lead to vitamin A related adverse reactions. Patients treated with isotretinoin capsules should be advised against taking supplements containing Vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. 7.2 Tetracyclines Concomitant treatment with isotretinoin capsules and tetracyclines should be avoided because isotretinoin use has been associated with a number of cases of intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.3 Phenytoin Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical trials have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and isotretinoin. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. 7.4 Systemic Corticosteroids Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical trials have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss with concomitant use of systemic corticosteroids and isotretinoin. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. 7.5 Norethindrone and Ethinyl Estradiol In a trial of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol as an oral contraceptive agent, isotretinoin capsules within the recommended dosage, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Although this study did not show any clinically significant interaction between isotretinoin and norethindrone, it is not known if there is an interaction between isotretinoin with other progestins.
