Drug: ivacaftor

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potential for other drugs to affect ivacaftor CYP3A inhibitors: Reduce KALYDECO dosage in patients aged 6 months and older when co-administered with strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) or moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole). KALYDECO is not recommended in patients aged 1 month to less than 6 months when co-administered with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Avoid food or drink containing grapefruit. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP3A Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A substrate. Co-administration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, significantly increased ivacaftor exposure [measured as area under the curve (AUC)] by 8.5-fold. Based on simulations of these results, a reduction of the KALYDECO dosage is recommended for patients aged 6 months and older taking concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, telithromycin, and clarithromycin. KALYDECO is not recommended for patients less than 6 months of age taking strong CYP3A inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Co-administration with fluconazole, a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. Therefore, a reduction of the KALYDECO dosage is recommended for patients aged 6 months and older taking concomitant moderate CYP3A inhibitors, such as fluconazole and erythromycin. KALYDECO is not recommended for patients less than 6 months of age taking moderate CYP3A inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Co-administration of KALYDECO with grapefruit juice, which contains one or more components that moderately inhibit CYP3A, may increase exposure of ivacaftor. Therefore, avoid food or drink containing grapefruit during treatment with KALYDECO [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Inducers of CYP3A Co-administration with rifampin, a strong CYP3A inducer, significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure (AUC) by approximately 9-fold. Therefore, co-administration with strong CYP3A inducers, such as rifampin, rifabutin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin, and St. John's wort is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Ciprofloxacin Co-administration of KALYDECO with ciprofloxacin had no effect on the exposure of ivacaftor. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is necessary during concomitant administration of KALYDECO with ciprofloxacin [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Potential for ivacaftor to affect other drugs 7.4 CYP2C9 Substrates Ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C9; therefore, monitoring of the international normalized ratio (INR) during co-administration of KALYDECO with warfarin is recommended. Other therapeutic products for which exposure may be increased by KALYDECO include glimepiride and glipizide; these therapeutic products should be used with caution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 CYP3A and/or P-gp Substrates Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite have the potential to inhibit CYP3A and P-gp. Co-administration with oral midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate, increased midazolam exposure 1.5-fold, consistent with weak inhibition of CYP3A by ivacaftor. Co-administration with digoxin, a sensitive P-gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3-fold, consistent with weak inhibition of P-gp by ivacaftor. Administration of KALYDECO may increase systemic exposure of drugs that are substrates of CYP3A and/or P-gp, which may increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse events. Therefore, caution and appropriate monitoring are recommended when co-administering KALYDECO with sensitive CYP3A and/or P-gp substrates, such as digoxin, cyclosporine, and tacrolimus [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].
