Drug: ivosidenib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Reduce TIBSOVO dose with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Monitor patients for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation ( 2.4 , 5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3 ). Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use with TIBSOVO ( 7.1 , 12.3 ). Sensitive CYP3A4 substrates: Avoid concomitant use with TIBSOVO ( 7.2 , 12.3 ). QTc Prolonging Drugs: Avoid concomitant use with TIBSOVO. If co-administration is unavoidable, monitor patients for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation ( 5.2 , 7.1 ). 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Ivosidenib Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Co-administration of TIBSOVO with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased ivosidenib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased ivosidenib plasma concentrations may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Prevention or Management Consider alternative therapies that are not strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors during treatment with TIBSOVO. If co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is unavoidable, reduce TIBSOVO to 250 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Monitor patients for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact Co-administration of TIBSOVO with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased ivosidenib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention or Management Avoid co-administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers with TIBSOVO. QTc Prolonging Drugs Clinical Impact Co-administration of TIBSOVO with QTc prolonging drugs may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Prevention or Management Avoid co-administration of QTc prolonging drugs with TIBSOVO or replace with alternative therapies. If co-administration of a QTc prolonging drug is unavoidable, monitor patients for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.2 Effect of Ivosidenib on Other Drugs Ivosidenib induces CYP3A4 and may induce CYP2C9. Co-administration will decrease concentrations of drugs that are sensitive CYP3A4 substrates and may decrease concentrations of drugs that are sensitive CYP2C9 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use alternative therapies that are not sensitive substrates of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 during TIBSOVO treatment. If co-administration of TIBSOVO with sensitive CYP3A4 substrates or CYP2C9 substrates is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect of these drugs. Do not administer TIBSOVO with anti-fungal agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 due to expected loss of antifungal efficacy. Co-administration of TIBSOVO may decrease the concentrations of hormonal contraceptives, consider alternative methods of contraception in patients receiving TIBSOVO.
