Drug: ixabepilone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Avoid strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the dosage of IXEMPRA ( 2.5 , 7.1 ). Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid strong CYP3A4 inducers. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the dosage of IXEMPRA ( 2.5 , 7.1 ). 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on IXEMPRA Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors The coadministration of IXEMPRA with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased ixabepilone plasma concentration, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of IXEMPRA. Avoid coadministration of IXEMPRA with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If the coadministration of IXEMPRA with strong CYP3A4 cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of IXEMPRA [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ]. Moderate or Weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors The coadministration of IXEMPRA with moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of IXEMPRA. Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce the dose of IXEMPRA as recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers The coadministration of IXEMPRA with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may decrease the efficacy of IXEMPRA [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Avoid the coadministration IXEMPRA with strong CYP3A4 inducers. If the coadministration of IXEMPRA with a strong CYP3A4 inducer cannot be avoided, increase the dose of IXEMPRA [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Concomitant Use of IXEMPRA and Capecitabine No clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of ixabepilone and capecitabine were observed when IXEMPRA was administered in combination with capecitabine (1000 mg/m 2 ) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Effect of Ixabepilone on Other Drugs Ixabepilone does not inhibit CYP enzymes at relevant clinical concentrations and is not expected to alter the plasma concentrations of other drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Capecitabine In patients with cancer who received ixabepilone (40 mg/m 2 ) in combination with capecitabine (1000 mg/m 2 ), ixabepilone Cmax decreased by 19%, capecitabine Cmax decreased by 27%, and 5-fluorouracil AUC increased by 14%, as compared to ixabepilone or capecitabine administered separately. The interaction is not clinically significant given that the combination treatment is supported by efficacy data.
