Drug: lanreotide_acetate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cyclosporine: Lanreotide Injection may decrease the absorption of cyclosporine. Dosage adjustment of cyclosporine may be needed. ( 7.2 ) Bromocriptine: Lanreotide Injection may increase the absorption of bromocriptine. ( 7.3 ) Bradycardia-Inducing Drugs (e.g., beta-blockers): Lanreotide Injection may decrease heart rate. Dosage adjustment of the coadministered drug may be necessary. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Drugs Lanreotide, like somatostatin and other somatostatin analogs, inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Therefore, blood glucose levels should be monitored when Lanreotide Injection treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered, and antidiabetic treatment should be adjusted accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.2 Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of cyclosporine with Lanreotide Injection may decrease the absorption of cyclosporine, and therefore, may necessitate adjustment of cyclosporine dose to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] 7.3 Bromocriptine Limited published data indicate that concomitant administration of a somatostatin analog and bromocriptine may increase the absorption of bromocriptine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Bradycardia-Inducing Drugs Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., beta-blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with lanreotide. Dosage adjustments of concomitant drugs may be necessary. 7.5 Drug Metabolism Interactions The limited published data available indicate that somatostatin analogs may decrease the metabolic clearance of compounds known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, which may be due to the suppression of growth hormone. Since it cannot be excluded that Lanreotide Injection may have this effect, avoid other drugs mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 and which have a low therapeutic index (e.g., quinidine, terfenadine). Drugs metabolized by the liver may be metabolized more slowly during Lanreotide Injection treatment and dose reductions of the concomitantly administered medications should be considered [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
