Drug: lansoprazole,_amoxicillin,_clarithromycin

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions No drug interaction studies have been conducted specifically with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules, amoxicillin capsules, and clarithromycin tablets. The following drug interactions are for the individual drug components: lansoprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin. Therefore, the decision to adjust dosage should depend on the clinician’s assessment of among other things, the cumulative or net effect of the drug components of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules, amoxicillin capsules, and clarithromycin tablets. Lansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Tables 5 and 6 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 5. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Coadministered with Lansoprazole Delayed-release Capsules and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with lansoprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with lansoprazole is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). See prescribing information. Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals : See prescribing information. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range. See prescribing information for warfarin. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted (see WARNINGS ). Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of lansoprazole may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. Dose adjustment of digoxin may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for digoxin. Theophylline Clinical Impact: Increased clearance of theophylline (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Intervention: Individual patients may require additional titration of their theophylline dosage when lansoprazole is started or stopped to ensure clinically effective blood concentrations. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Lansoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Coadministration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving lansoprazole delayed-release capsules and MMF. Use lansoprazole delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Dose adjustment of tacrolimus may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: CgA levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors (see WARNINGS , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole treatment at least 28 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Table 6. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Lansoprazole Delayed-release Capsules When Coadministered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 OR CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of lansoprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Intervention: St John's Wort, rifampin : Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole. Ritonavir-containing products : See prescribing information. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of lansoprazole is expected when used concomitantly with strong inhibitors (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Intervention: Voriconazole : See prescribing information. Sucralfate Clinical Impact: Decreased and delayed absorption of lansoprazole (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Intervention: Take lansoprazole delayed-release capsules at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Amoxicillin Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin. Concurrent use of amoxicillin and probenecid may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin. Antibiotics Chloramphenicol, macrolides, sulfonamides, and tetracyclines may interfere with bactericidal effects of penicillin. This has been demonstrated in vitro ; however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well documented. Amoxicillin may affect the gut flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. Table 7. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Clarithromycin Tablets Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin tablets Drug(s) with Pharmacokinetics Affected by Clarithromycin tablets Recommendation Comments Antiarrhythmics: Disopyramide Quinidine Dofetilide Amiodarone Sotalol Procainamide Not Recommended Disopyramide, Quinidine : There have been postmarketing reports of torsades de pointes occurring with concurrent use of clarithromycin and quinidine or disopyramide. Electrocardiograms should be monitored for QTc prolongation during coadministration of clarithromycin with these drugs (see WARNINGS ). Serum concentrations of these medications should also be monitored. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with disopyramide and quinidine. There have been postmarketing reports of hypoglycemia with the concomitant administration of clarithromycin and disopyramide. Therefore, blood glucose levels should be monitored during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and disopyramide. Digoxin Use With Caution Digoxin : Digoxin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and clarithromycin is known to inhibit Pgp. When clarithromycin and digoxin are coadministered, inhibition of Pgp by clarithromycin may lead to increased exposure of digoxin. Elevated digoxin serum concentrations in patients receiving clarithromycin and digoxin concomitantly have been reported in postmarketing surveillance. Some patients have shown clinical signs consistent with digoxin toxicity, including potentially fatal arrhythmias. Monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations should be considered, especially for patients with digoxin concentrations in the upper therapeutic range. Oral Anticoagulants: Warfarin Use With Caution Oral anticoagulants : Spontaneous reports in the postmarketing period suggest that concomitant administration of clarithromycin and oral anticoagulants may potentiate the effects of the oral anticoagulants. Prothrombin times should be carefully monitored while patients are receiving clarithromycin and oral anticoagulants simultaneously (see WARNINGS ). Antiepileptics: Carbamazepine Use With Caution Carbamazepine : Concomitant administration of single doses of clarithromycin and carbamazepine has been shown to result in increased plasma concentrations of carbamazepine. Blood level monitoring of carbamazepine may be considered. Increased serum concentrations of carbamazepine were observed in clinical trials with clarithromycin. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with carbamazepine. Antifungals: Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole : Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly (see also Itraconazole under "Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets" in the table below). Clarithromycin may increase the plasma concentrations of itraconazole. Patients taking itraconazole and clarithromycin concomitantly should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions. Fluconazole No Dose Adjustment Fluconazole : No dosage adjustment of clarithromycin is necessary when coadministered with fluconazole. Anti-Gout Agents: Colchicine (in patients with renal or hepatic impairment) Contraindicated Colchicine : Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A and the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Clarithromycin and other macrolides are known to inhibit CYP3A and Pgp. The dose of colchicine should be reduced when coadministered with clarithromycin in patients with normal renal and hepatic function (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS ). Colchicine (in patients with normal renal and hepatic function) Use With Caution Antipsychotics: Pimozide Contraindicated Pimozide : (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Lurasidone Lurasidone : (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Quetiapine Quetiapine : Quetiapine is a substrate for CYP3A4, which is inhibited by clarithromycin. Coadministration with clarithromycin could result in increased quetiapine exposure and possible quetiapine related toxicities. There have been postmarketing reports of somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, altered state of consciousness, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and QT prolongation during concomitant administration. Refer to quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on dose reduction if coadministered with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Antispasmodics: Tolterodine (patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity) Use With Caution Tolterodine : The primary route of metabolism for tolterodine is via CYP2D6. However, in a subset of the population devoid of CYP2D6, the identified pathway of metabolism is via CYP3A. In this population subset, inhibition of CYP3A results in significantly higher serum concentrations of tolterodine. Tolterodine 1 mg twice daily is recommended in patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity (poor metabolizers) when coadministered with clarithromycin. Antivirals: Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir : Both clarithromycin and atazanavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Atazanavir under "Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets" in the table below). Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir : Both clarithromycin and saquinavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Saquinavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table below). Ritonavir Etravirine Ritonavir, Etravirine : (see Ritonavir and Etravirine under "Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets" in the table below). Maraviroc Maraviroc : Clarithromycin may result in increases in maraviroc exposures by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism. See Selzentry ® prescribing information for dose recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Boceprevir (in patients with normal renal function) No Dose Adjustment Boceprevir : Both clarithromycin and boceprevir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when coadministered. No dose adjustments are necessary for patients with normal renal function (see Victrelis ® prescribing information). Didanosine Zidovudine Zidovudine : Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine to HIV-infected adult patients may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. Administration of clarithromycin and zidovudine should be separated by at least two hours. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated. Calcium Channel Blockers: Verapamil Use With Caution Verapamil : Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent verapamil (see WARNINGS ). Amlodipine Diltiazem Amlodipine, Diltiazem : (see WARNINGS ). Nifedipine Nifedipine : Nifedipine is a substrate for CYP3A. Clarithromycin and other macrolides are known to inhibit CYP3A. There is potential of CYP3A-mediated interaction between nifedipine and clarithromycin. Hypotension and peripheral edema were observed when clarithromycin was taken concomitantly with nifedipine (see WARNINGS ). Ergot Alkaloids: Ergotamine Dihydroergotamine Contraindicated Ergotamine, Dihydroergotamine : Postmarketing reports indicate that coadministration of clarithromycin with ergotamine or dihydroergotamine has been associated with acute ergot toxicity characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Gastroprokinetic Agents: Cisapride Contraindicated Cisapride : (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: Lovastatin Simvastatin Contraindicated Lovastatin, Simvastatin, Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Fluvastatin : (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS ). Atorvastatin Pravastatin Use With Caution Fluvastatin No Dose Adjustment Hypoglycemic Agents: Nateglinide Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Use With Caution Nateglinide, Pioglitazone, Repaglinide, Rosiglitazone: (see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Insulin Insulin : (see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine Use With Caution Cyclosporine : There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with cyclosporine. Tacrolimus Tacrolimus : There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with tacrolimus. Phosphodiesterase Inhibitors: Sildenafil Tadalafil Vardenafil Use With Caution Sildenafil, Tadalafil, Vardenafil : Each of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and CYP3A will be inhibited by concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Coadministration of clarithromycin with sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil will result in increased exposure of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors. Coadministration of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors with clarithromycin is not recommended. Increased systemic exposure of these drugs may occur with clarithromycin; reduction of dosage for phosphodiesterase inhibitors should be considered (see their respective prescribing information). Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole No Dose Adjustment Omeprazole : The mean 24 hour gastric pH value was 5.2 when omeprazole was administered alone and 5.7 when coadministered with clarithromycin as a result of increased omeprazole exposures (see also Omeprazole under "Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets" in the table below). Xanthine Derivatives: Theophylline Use With Caution Theophylline : Clarithromycin use in patients who are receiving theophylline may be associated with an increase of serum theophylline concentrations. Monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations should be considered for patients receiving high doses of theophylline or with baseline concentrations in the upper therapeutic range. Triazolobenzodiazepines and Other Related Benzodiazepines: Midazolam Use With Caution Midazolam : When oral midazolam is coadministered with clarithromycin, dose adjustments may be necessary and possible prolongation and intensity of effect should be anticipated (see WARNINGS ). Alprazolam Triazolam Triazolam, Alprazolam : Caution and appropriate dose adjustments should be considered when triazolam or alprazolam is coadministered with clarithromycin. There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions and central nervous system (CNS) effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) with the concomitant use of clarithromycin and triazolam. Monitoring the patient for increased CNS pharmacological effects is suggested. In postmarketing experience, erythromycin has been reported to decrease the clearance of triazolam and midazolam, and thus, may increase the pharmacologic effect of these benzodiazepines. Temazepam Nitrazepam Lorazepam No Dose Adjustment Temazepam, Nitrazepam, Lorazepam : For benzodiazepines which are not metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., temazepam, nitrazepam, lorazepam), a clinically important interaction with clarithromycin is unlikely. Cytochrome P450 Inducers: Rifabutin Use With Caution Rifabutin : Concomitant administration of rifabutin and clarithromycin resulted in an increase in rifabutin, and decrease in clarithromycin serum levels together with an increased risk of uveitis (see Rifabutin under "Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets" in the table below). Other Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A: Alfentanil Bromocriptine Cilostazol Methylprednisolone Vinblastine Phenobarbital St. John's Wort Use With Caution There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with alfentanil, methylprednisolone, cilostazol, bromocriptine, vinblastine, phenobarbital, and St. John's Wort. Other Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Isoforms Other than CYP3A: Hexobarbital Phenytoin Valproate Use With Caution There have been postmarketing reports of interactions of clarithromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A, including hexobarbital, phenytoin, and valproate. Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets Drug(s) that Affect the Pharmacokinetics of Clarithromycin Tablets Recommendation Comments Antifungals: Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole : Itraconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of clarithromycin. Patients taking itraconazole and clarithromycin concomitantly should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions (see also Itraconazole under "Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Tablets" in the table above). Antivirals: Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir : When clarithromycin is coadministered with atazanavir, the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 50%. Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is coadministered with atazanavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Doses of clarithromycin greater than 1000 mg per day should not be coadministered with protease inhibitors. Ritonavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Ritonavir : Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is coadministered with ritonavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium . Doses of clarithromycin greater than 1000 mg per day should not be coadministered with protease inhibitors. Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir : When saquinavir is coadministered with ritonavir, consideration should be given to the potential effects of ritonavir on clarithromycin (refer to ritonavir above). Etravirine Etravirine : Clarithromycin exposure was decreased by etravirine; however, concentrations of the active metabolite, 14-OH-clarithromycin, were increased. Because 14-OH-clarithromycin has reduced activity against Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), overall activity against this pathogen may be altered; therefore alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered for the treatment of MAC. Saquinavir (in patients with normal renal function) Ritonavir (in patients with normal renal function) No Dose Adjustment Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole Use With Caution Omeprazole : Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were also increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole. Miscellaneous Cytochrome P450 Inducers: Efavirenz Nevirapine Rifampicin Rifabutin Rifapentine Use With Caution Inducers of CYP3A enzymes, such as efavirenz, nevirapine, rifampicin, rifabutin, and rifapentine will increase the metabolism of clarithromycin, thus decreasing plasma concentrations of clarithromycin, while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. Alternative antibacterial treatment should be considered when treating patients receiving inducers of CYP3A. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin (see Rifabutin under "Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Tablets" in the table above).
