Drug: ledipasvir_and_sofosbuvir

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration with amiodarone may result in serious symptomatic bradycardia. Use of HARVONI with amiodarone is not recommended. ( 5.2 , 6.2 , 7.2 ) P-gp inducers (e.g., rifampin, St. John's wort): May alter concentrations of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir. Use of HARVONI with P-gp inducers is not recommended. ( 5.3 , 7 , 12.3 ) Consult the full prescribing information prior to use for potential drug interactions. ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 7 , 12.3 ) Clearance of HCV infection with direct acting antivirals may lead to changes in hepatic function, which may impact safe and effective use of concomitant medications. Frequent monitoring of relevant laboratory parameters (INR or blood glucose) and dose adjustments of certain concomitant medications may be necessary. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Drug Interaction As HARVONI contains ledipasvir and sofosbuvir, any interactions that have been identified with these agents individually may occur with HARVONI. After oral administration of HARVONI, sofosbuvir is rapidly absorbed and subject to extensive first-pass hepatic extraction. In clinical pharmacology studies, both sofosbuvir and the inactive metabolite GS-331007 were monitored for purposes of pharmacokinetic analyses. Ledipasvir is an inhibitor of the drug transporters P-gp and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and may increase intestinal absorption of coadministered substrates for these transporters. Ledipasvir and sofosbuvir are substrates of drug transporters P-gp and BCRP while GS-331007 is not. P-gp inducers (e.g., rifampin, St. John's wort) may decrease ledipasvir and sofosbuvir plasma concentrations, leading to reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI, and the use with P-gp inducers is not recommended with HARVONI [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.2 Established and Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Clearance of HCV infection with direct acting antivirals may lead to changes in hepatic function, which may impact the safe and effective use of concomitant medications. For example, altered blood glucose control resulting in serious symptomatic hypoglycemia has been reported in diabetic patients in postmarketing case reports and published epidemiological studies. Management of hypoglycemia in these cases required either discontinuation or dose modification of concomitant medications used for diabetes treatment. Frequent monitoring of relevant laboratory parameters (e.g., International Normalized Ratio [INR] in patients taking warfarin, blood glucose levels in diabetic patients) or drug concentrations of concomitant medications such as cytochrome P450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., certain immunosuppressants) is recommended to ensure safe and effective use. Dose adjustments of concomitant medications may be necessary. Table 6 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either HARVONI, the components of HARVONI (ledipasvir and sofosbuvir) as individual agents, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with HARVONI [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 6 Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction This table is not all inclusive. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration ↓ = decrease, ↑ = increase Clinical Comment tenofovir DF = tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Acid Reducing Agents: ↓ ledipasvir Ledipasvir solubility decreases as pH increases. Drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease concentration of ledipasvir. Antacids (e.g., aluminum and magnesium hydroxide) It is recommended to separate antacid and HARVONI administration by 4 hours. H 2 -receptor antagonists These interactions have been studied in healthy adults. (e.g., famotidine) H 2 -receptor antagonists may be administered simultaneously with or 12 hours apart from HARVONI at a dose that does not exceed doses comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily. Proton-pump inhibitors (e.g., omeprazole) Proton-pump inhibitor doses comparable to omeprazole 20 mg or lower can be administered simultaneously with HARVONI under fasted conditions. Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone Effect on amiodarone, ledipasvir, and sofosbuvir concentrations unknown Coadministration of amiodarone with HARVONI may result in serious symptomatic bradycardia. The mechanism of this effect is unknown. Coadministration of amiodarone with HARVONI is not recommended; if coadministration is required, cardiac monitoring is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. digoxin ↑ digoxin Coadministration of HARVONI with digoxin may increase the concentration of digoxin. Therapeutic concentration monitoring of digoxin is recommended when coadministered with HARVONI. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine phenytoin phenobarbital ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with carbamazepine, phenytoin, or phenobarbital is expected to decrease the concentration of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir, leading to reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI. Coadministration is not recommended. Antimycobacterials: rifabutin rifampin rifapentine ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with rifampin, rifabutin, or rifapentine is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. HIV Antiretrovirals: Regimens containing tenofovir DF without an HIV protease inhibitor/ ritonavir or cobicistat ↑ tenofovir Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions in patients receiving HARVONI concomitantly with a regimen containing tenofovir DF without an HIV protease inhibitor/ritonavir or cobicistat. Refer to VIREAD or TRUVADA prescribing information for recommendations on renal monitoring. Regimens containing tenofovir DF and an HIV protease inhibitor/ ritonavir or cobicistat atazanavir/ritonavir or cobicistat + emtricitabine/tenofovir DF darunavir/ritonavir or cobicistat + emtricitabine/tenofovir DF lopinavir/ritonavir + emtricitabine/tenofovir DF ↑ tenofovir The safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in the setting of HARVONI and an HIV protease inhibitor/ritonavir or cobicistat has not been established. Consider alternative HCV or antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in tenofovir exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. Refer to VIREAD or TRUVADA prescribing information for recommendations on renal monitoring. elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir DF ↑ tenofovir The safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in the setting of HARVONI and the combination of elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF has not been established. Coadministration is not recommended. tipranavir/ritonavir ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with tipranavir/ritonavir is expected to decrease the concentration of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir, leading to reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI. Coadministration is not recommended. HCV Products: simeprevir ↑ ledipasvir ↑ simeprevir Concentrations of ledipasvir and simeprevir are increased when simeprevir is coadministered with ledipasvir. Coadministration of HARVONI with simeprevir is not recommended. Herbal Supplements: St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with St. John's wort, a P-gp inducer, is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: rosuvastatin ↑ rosuvastatin Coadministration of HARVONI with rosuvastatin may significantly increase the concentration of rosuvastatin, which is associated with increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. Coadministration of HARVONI with rosuvastatin is not recommended. atorvastatin ↑ atorvastatin Coadministration of HARVONI with atorvastatin may be associated with increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. Monitor closely for HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. 7.3 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with HARVONI Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of HARVONI (ledipasvir or sofosbuvir) or HARVONI, no clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected when HARVONI is used with the following drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]: abacavir, atazanavir/ritonavir, cyclosporine, darunavir/ritonavir, dolutegravir, efavirenz, elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide, emtricitabine, lamivudine, methadone, midazolam, oral contraceptives, pravastatin, raltegravir, rilpivirine, tacrolimus, or verapamil. See Table 6 for use of HARVONI with certain HIV antiretroviral regimens [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] .
