Drug: lemborexant

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Weak CYP3A inhibitors: The maximum recommended dose is 5 mg. ( 2.2 , 7.1 ) Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with DAYVIGO Table 2: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with DAYVIGO Effect of Other Drugs on DAYVIGO Strong, Moderate, and Weak CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use with a strong, moderate, or weak CYP3A inhibitor increases lemborexant AUC and C max which may increase the risk of DAYVIGO adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of DAYVIGO with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. The maximum recommended dose of DAYVIGO with weak CYP3A inhibitors is 5 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. Examples: Strong CYP3A inhibitors: itraconazole, clarithromycin Moderate CYP3A inhibitors: fluconazole, verapamil Weak CYP3A inhibitors: chlorzoxazone, ranitidine Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use with a strong or moderate CYP3A inducer decreases lemborexant exposure, which may reduce DAYVIGO efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of DAYVIGO with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. Examples: Strong CYP3A inducers: rifampin, carbamazepine, St. John’s wort Moderate CYP3A inducers: bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil Alcohol Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of alcohol increases lemborexant C max and AUC. Co-administration of DAYVIGO with alcohol produced a numerically greater negative impact on postural stability and memory as compared with alcohol alone when assessed near the t max of DAYVIGO (2 hours post-dose) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: Avoid alcohol consumption with DAYVIGO [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Effect of DAYVIGO on Other Drugs CYP2B6 Substrates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of DAYVIGO decreases the AUC of drugs that are CYP2B6 substrates, which may result in reduced efficacy for these concomitant medications [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Patients receiving DAYVIGO and CYP2B6 substrates concurrently should be monitored for adequate clinical response. Increasing the doses of CYP2B6 substrates may be considered as needed. Examples: Bupropion, methadone
