Drug: lenacapavir_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important drug interactions. ( 4 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on SUNLENCA Lenacapavir is a substrate of P-gp, UGT1A1, and CYP3A. Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Drugs that are strong or moderate inducers of CYP3A may significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lenacapavir [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may result in loss of therapeutic effect of SUNLENCA and development of resistance. Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with strong CYP3A inducers during SUNLENCA treatment is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with moderate CYP3A inducers during SUNLENCA treatment is not recommended. Combined P-gp, UGT1A1, and Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Combined P-gp, UGT1A1, and strong CYP3A inhibitors may significantly increase plasma concentrations of SUNLENCA. Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with these inhibitors is not recommended. 7.2 Effect of SUNLENCA on Other Drugs Lenacapavir is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Due to the long half-life of lenacapavir following subcutaneous administration, SUNLENCA may increase the exposure of drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] initiated within 9 months after the last subcutaneous dose of SUNLENCA, which may increase the potential risk of adverse reactions. See the prescribing information of the sensitive CYP3A substrate for dosing recommendations with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 5 provides a listing of clinically significant drug interactions with recommended prevention or management strategies, but is not all inclusive. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with SUNLENCA or are drug interactions that may occur with SUNLENCA [see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 5 Drug Interactions with SUNLENCA Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration ↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease. Clinical Comment Antiarrhythmics: digoxin ↑ digoxin Use with caution and monitor digoxin therapeutic concentration. Anticoagulants: Direct Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) rivaroxaban dabigatran edoxaban ↑ DOAC Refer to the DOAC prescribing information for concomitant administration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors and/or P-gp inhibitors. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin ↓ lenacapavir Concomitant administration of carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, or phenytoin may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with carbamazepine or phenytoin is contraindicated. Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with oxcarbazepine or phenobarbital is not recommended. Consider use of alternative anticonvulsants. Antiretroviral Agents: atazanavir/cobicistat Drug-drug interaction study was conducted. atazanavir/ritonavir ↑ lenacapavir (atazanavir/cobicistat, atazanavir/ritonavir) Concomitant administration of efavirenz, nevirapine, or tipranavir/ritonavir may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. efavirenz nevirapine tipranavir/ritonavir ↓ lenacapavir (efavirenz, nevirapine, tipranavir/ritonavir) Concomitant administration with atazanavir/cobicistat, atazanavir/ritonavir, efavirenz, nevirapine, or tipranavir/ritonavir is not recommended. Antimycobacterials: rifabutin rifampin rifapentine ↓ lenacapavir Concomitant administration of rifabutin, rifampin and rifapentine may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with rifampin is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with rifabutin or rifapentine is not recommended. Corticosteroids (systemic): cortisone/hydrocortisone dexamethasone ↑ corticosteroids (systemic) Concomitant administration with systemic corticosteroids whose exposures are significantly increased by CYP3A inhibitors can increase the risk for Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Initiate with the lowest starting dose and titrate carefully while monitoring for safety. ↓ lenacapavir (dexamethasone) Concomitant administration of systemic dexamethasone may result in loss of therapeutic effect of lenacapavir and development of resistance. Alternative corticosteroids to dexamethasone should be considered, particularly for long-term use. Ergot derivatives: dihydroergotamine ergotamine methylergonovine ↑ dihydroergotamine ↑ ergotamine ↑ methylergonovine Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with dihydroergotamine, ergotamine or methylergonovine is not recommended. Herbal Products: St. John's wort The induction potency of St. John's wort may vary widely based on preparation. (Hypericum perforatum) ↓ lenacapavir Concomitant administration of St. John's wort may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with St. John's wort is contraindicated. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: lovastatin simvastatin ↑ lovastatin ↑ simvastatin Initiate lovastatin and simvastatin with the lowest starting dose and titrate carefully while monitoring for safety (e.g., myopathy). Narcotic analgesics metabolized by CYP3A: e.g., fentanyl, oxycodone ↑ fentanyl ↑ oxycodone Careful monitoring of therapeutic effects and adverse reactions associated with CYP3A-metabolized narcotic analgesics (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended with co-administration. tramadol ↑ tramadol A decrease in dose may be needed for tramadol with concomitant use. Narcotic analgesic for treatment of opioid dependence: buprenorphine, methadone buprenorphine: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Initiation of buprenorphine or methadone in patients taking SUNLENCA: Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of SUNLENCA in patients taking buprenorphine or methadone: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. Opioid Antagonist: naloxegol ↑ naloxegol Avoid use with SUNLENCA; if unavoidable, decrease the dosage of naloxegol and monitor for adverse reactions. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) Inhibitors: sildenafil tadalafil vardenafil ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Concomitant administration of SUNLENCA with tadalafil for the treatment of PAH is not recommended. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction (ED): Refer to the prescribing information of PDE-5 inhibitors for dose recommendations. Sedatives/Hypnotics: midazolam (oral) triazolam ↑ midazolam (oral) ↑ triazolam Use with caution when midazolam or triazolam is concomitantly administered with SUNLENCA 7.4 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with SUNLENCA Based on drug interaction studies conducted with SUNLENCA, no clinically significant drug interactions have been observed with: darunavir/cobicistat, cobicistat, famotidine, pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, tenofovir alafenamide, and voriconazole.
