Drug: letrozole_and_ribociclib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ribociclib CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use of KISQALI FEMARA CO-PACK with strong CYP3A inhibitors. If strong inhibitors cannot be avoided, reduce KISQALI dose. ( 2.2, 7.1 ) CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use of KISQALI FEMARA CO-PACK with strong CYP3A inducers. ( 7.2 ) CYP3A Substrates: The dose of CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic indices may need to be reduced when given concurrently with KISQALI FEMARA CO-PACK. ( 7.3 ) Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval: Avoid concomitant use of drugs known to prolong QT interval, such as anti-arrhythmic medicines. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Ribociclib Plasma Concentrations CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increases ribociclib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Increased ribociclib concentrations may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions, including QTcF prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors with KISQALI and consider alternative concomitant medications with less potential for CYP3A inhibition. In patients with early breast cancer, if coadministration of KISQALI with a strong CYP3A inhibitor cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of KISQALI to 200 mg once daily. In patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer, if coadministration of KISQALI with a strong CYP3A inhibitor cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of KISQALI to 400 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)] . 7.2 Drugs That May Decrease Ribociclib Plasma Concentrations CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducers decreases the plasma exposure of ribociclib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers and consider an alternate concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A. 7.3 Effect of KISQALI on Other Drugs CYP3A Substrates Coadministration of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with multiple doses of KISQALI increases the substrate exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . For CYP3A substrates where minimal increases in the concentration may increase CYP3A substrate adverse reactions, monitor for increased adverse reactions of the CYP3A substrate during treatment with KISQALI. The dose of a sensitive CYP3A substrate may need to be reduced as KISQALI can increase its exposure. 7.4 Drugs That Prolong the QT Interval Avoid coadministration of KISQALI with products with a known potential to prolong QT interval, such as antiarrhythmic drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor ECG when initiating, during concomitant use, and as clinically indicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] .
