Drug: levomilnacipran_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors : Maximum recommended dosage is 80 mg once daily ( 7 ). 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with FETZIMA Table 5 includes clinically important drug interactions with FETZIMA. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with FETZIMA Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs and SNRIs including FETZIMA with MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Concomitant use of FETZIMA is contraindicated: With an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders or within 7 days of stopping treatment with FETZIMA. Within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders In a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 , 2.6 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Examples: selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of FETZIMA with other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when FETZIMA is used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, immediately discontinue FETZIMA and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . Examples: other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of FETZIMA with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug may potentiate the risk of bleeding. This may be due to the effect of FETZIMA on the release of serotonin by platelets. Intervention: Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when FETZIMA is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Examples: NSAIDs, aspirin, and warfarin Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of FETZIMA with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increases levomilnacipran exposure [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: The dose of FETZIMA should not exceed 80 mg once daily when used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ). Examples: Ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin Alcohol Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of FETZIMA and alcohol may result in accelerated release of levomilnacipran. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of FETZIMA and alcohol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
