Drug: levorphanol_tartrate

=== Drug Interactions ===
DRUG INTERACTIONS Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ] . Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue levorphanol tartrate tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioid with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of levorphanol tartrate tablets and precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Advise patient to avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants Levorphanol may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of levorphanol tartrate tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with the concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. If concomitant use is warranted, evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. If concomitant use is warranted, evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when levorphanol tartrate tablets is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs.
