Drug: linagliptin_and_metformin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 describes clinically relevant interactions with linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride. Table 2 Clinically Relevant Interactions with linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Intervention Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )]. Intervention Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Alcohol Clinical Impact Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Intervention Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride. Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin. Intervention Coadministration of linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may require lower dosages of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. Intervention When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride, the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. Inducers of P-glycoprotein or CYP3A4 Enzymes Clinical Impact Rifampin decreased linagliptin exposure, suggesting that the efficacy of linagliptin may be reduced when administered in combination with a strong P-gp or CYP3A4 inducer. Intervention Use of alternative treatments is strongly recommended when linagliptin is to be administered with a strong P-gp or CYP3A4 inducer. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. ( 7 ) Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance: May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider benefits and risks of concomitant use. (7 ) Alcohol: Can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. ( 7 ) Strong P-glycoprotein/CYP3A4 Inducer: Efficacy may be reduced when administered in combination (e.g., rifampin). Use of alternative treatments is strongly recommended. ( 7 )
