Drug: liothyronine_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to liothyronine sodium ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics (e.g. absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to liothyronine sodium (see Tables 1 - 4). Table 1: Drugs That May Decrease T3 Absorption (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of liothyronine sodium by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Drug or Drug Class Effect Bile Acid Sequestrants -Colesevelam -Cholestyramine -Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins -Kayexalate -Sevelamer Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease thyroid hormones absorption. Administer liothyronine sodium at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor TSH levels. Table 2: Drugs That May Alter Triiodothyronine (T3) Serum Transport Without Affecting Free Thyroxine (FT4) Concentration (Euthyroidism) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) concentration. Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow-Release Nicotinic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration. Salicylates (>2 g/day) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30%. Other drugs: Carbamazepine Furosemide (>80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein binding site displacement. Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin, causing an increased free-T4 fraction in serum. Furosemide competes for T4-binding sites on TBG, prealbumin, and albumin, so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level. Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of thyroid hormones, and total and FT4 may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters. Table 3: Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of Thyroid hormones Potential impact: Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of thyroid hormones, resulting in increased liothyronine sodium requirements. Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine. Phenobarbital increases L-thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels. Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism. Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of thyroid hormones. Table 4: Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3 Potential impact: Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, leading to decreased T3 levels. However, serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased. Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta-adrenergic antagonists (e.g., Propranolol >160 mg/day) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (>160 mg/day), T3 and T4 levels change, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. Actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when a hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone ≥4 mg/day) Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T4 levels. However, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production (see above). Other drugs: Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine (T4) to triiodothyronine (T3) and may cause isolated biochemical changes (increase in serum free-T4, and decreased or normal free-T3) in clinically euthyroid patients. 7.2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of liothyronine sodium therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Carefully monitor glycemic control, especially when liothyronine sodium tablets are started, changed, or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants Liothyronine sodium increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the liothyronine sodium dose is increased. Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Liothyronine sodium may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides. 7.5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic (e.g., amitriptyline) or tetracyclic (e.g., maprotiline) antidepressants and liothyronine sodium may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation. Liothyronine sodium tablets may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on liothyronine sodium may result in increased liothyronine sodium requirements. 7.6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and liothyronine sodium may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia. Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients. 7.7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and liothyronine sodium may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease. 7.8 Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitors Concurrent use of tyrosine-kinase inhibitors such as imatinib may cause hypothyroidism. Closely monitor TSH levels in such patients. 7.9 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values. Measure and evaluate unbound (free) hormone in this circumstance. Pregnancy, infectious hepatitis, estrogens, estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations. Nephrosis, severe hypoproteinemia, severe liver disease, acromegaly, androgens and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration. Familial hyper- or hypo-thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described, with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000.
