Drug: lonapegsomatropin-tcgd

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with SKYTROFA and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with SKYTROFA Replacement Glucocorticoid Treatment Clinical Impact: Microsomal enzyme 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11βHSD-1) is required for conversion of cortisone to its active metabolite, cortisol, in hepatic and adipose tissue. Somatropin inhibits 11βHSD-1. Consequently, individuals with untreated growth hormone deficiency (GHD) have relative increases in 11βHSD-1 and serum cortisol. Initiation of SKYTROFA may result in inhibition of 11βHSD-1 and reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Intervention: Patients treated with glucocorticoid replacement for hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance or stress doses following initiation of SKYTROFA [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Examples Cortisone acetate and prednisone may be affected more than others because conversion of these drugs to their biologically active metabolites is dependent on the activity of 11βHSD-1. Pharmacologic Glucocorticoid Therapy and Supraphysiologic Glucocorticoid Treatment Clinical Impact: Pharmacologic glucocorticoid therapy and supraphysiologic glucocorticoid treatment may attenuate the growth-promoting effects of SKYTROFA in pediatric patients. Intervention: Carefully adjust glucocorticoid replacement dosing in pediatric patients receiving glucocorticoid treatments to avoid both hypoadrenalism and an inhibitory effect on growth. Cytochrome P450-Metabolized Drugs Clinical Impact: Limited published data indicate that somatropin treatment increases cytochrome P450 (CYP450)-mediated antipyrine clearance. SKYTROFA may alter the clearance of compounds known to be metabolized by CYP450 liver enzymes. Intervention: Careful monitoring is advisable when SKYTROFA is administered in combination with drugs metabolized by CYP450 liver enzymes. Oral Estrogen Clinical Impact: Oral estrogens may reduce the serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) response to SKYTROFA. Intervention: Patients receiving oral estrogen replacement may require higher SKYTROFA dosages. Insulin and/or Other Antihyperglycemic Agents Clinical Impact: Treatment with SKYTROFA may decrease insulin sensitivity, particularly at higher doses. Intervention: Patients with diabetes mellitus may require adjustment of their doses of insulin and/or other antihyperglycemic agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Replacement Glucocorticoid Treatment: Patients treated with glucocorticoid for hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance or stress doses following initiation of SKYTROFA ( 7 ). Pharmacologic Glucocorticoid Therapy and Supraphysiologic Glucocorticoid Treatment: Adjust glucocorticoid dosing in pediatric patients to avoid both hypoadrenalism and an inhibitory effect on growth ( 7 ). Cytochrome P450-Metabolized Drugs: SKYTROFA may alter the clearance. Monitor carefully if used with SKYTROFA ( 7 ). Oral Estrogen: Larger doses of SKYTROFA may be required ( 7 ). Insulin and/or Other Antihyperglycemic Agents: Dose adjustment of insulin or antihyperglycemic agent may be required ( 7 ).
