Drug: loperamide_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Effects of Other Drugs on Loperamide Concomitant use of loperamide hydrochloride with inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., itraconazole) or CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) or inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (e.g., quinidine, ritonavir) can increase exposure to loperamide. The increased systemic exposure to loperamide may increase a risk for cardiac adverse reactions especially in patients who are taking multiple CYP enzyme inhibitors, or in patients with underlying cardiac conditions (see WARNINGS ). Monitor patients for cardiac adverse reactions. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Itraconazole Concomitant administration of multiple doses of 100 mg itraconazole twice daily, an inhibitor of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein, with a single 4 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride increased the peak plasma concentration and the systemic exposure to loperamide by 2.9-fold and 3.8-fold, respectively. CYP2C8 Inhibitors Gemfibrozil When a single 4 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride was co-administered with 600 mg gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, on day 3 of a 5-day treatment with gemfibrozil twice daily, the mean peak plasma concentration and the systemic exposure to loperamide was increased by 1.6-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 Inhibitors When multiple doses of both 100 mg itraconazole and 600 mg gemfibrozil twice daily were administered with a single 4 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride, the mean peak plasma concentration and the systemic exposure to loperamide was increased by 4.2-fold and 12.6-fold, respectively. P-glycoprotein Inhibitors Concomitant administration of a 16 mg single dose of loperamide hydrochloride with a 600 mg single dose of quinidine or ritonavir, both of which are P-glycoprotein inhibitors, resulted in a 2- to 3-fold increase in loperamide plasma concentrations. Due to the potential for enhanced CNS adverse reactions when loperamide is co-administered with quinidine and with ritonavir, caution should be exercised when loperamide hydrochloride is administered at the recommended dosages (2 mg, up to 16 mg maximum daily dose) with P-glycoprotein inhibitors. Effects of Loperamide on Other Drugs Saquinavir When a single 16 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride is co-administered with a 600 mg single dose of saquinavir, loperamide decreased saquinavir exposure by 54%, which may be of clinical relevance due to reduction of therapeutic efficacy of saquinavir. The effect of saquinavir on loperamide is of less clinical significance. Therefore, when loperamide hydrochloride is given with saquinavir, the therapeutic efficacy of saquinavir should be closely monitored.
