Drug: lopinavir_and_ritonavir

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of KALETRA can alter the plasma concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the plasma concentrations of lopinavir. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. ( 4 , 5.1 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Potential for KALETRA to Affect Other Drugs Lopinavir/ritonavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and may increase plasma concentrations of agents that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A. Agents that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A and have high first pass metabolism appear to be the most susceptible to large increases in AUC (> 3-fold) when co-administered with KALETRA. Thus, co-administration of KALETRA with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated. Co-administration with other CYP3A substrates may require a dose adjustment or additional monitoring as shown in Table 12. Additionally, KALETRA induces glucuronidation. Published data suggest that lopinavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1. These examples are a guide and not considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may interact with lopinavir/ritonavir. The healthcare provider should consult appropriate references for comprehensive information. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Lopinavir Lopinavir/ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A may decrease lopinavir plasma concentrations and reduce KALETRA’s therapeutic effect. Although not observed in the KALETRA/ketoconazole drug interaction study, co-administration of KALETRA and other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may increase lopinavir plasma concentrations. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 12 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. Alteration in dose or regimen may be recommended based on drug interaction studies or predicted interaction [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] for magnitude of interaction. Table 12. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Lopinavir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comments HIV-1 Antiviral Agents HIV-1 Protease Inhibitor: fosamprenavir/ritonavir ↓ amprenavir ↓ lopinavir An increased rate of adverse reactions has been observed with co-administration of these medications. Appropriate doses of the combinations with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. HIV-1 Protease Inhibitor: indinavir* ↑ indinavir Decrease indinavir dose to 600 mg twice daily, when co-administered with KALETRA 400/100 mg twice daily. KALETRA once daily has not been studied in combination with indinavir. HIV-1 Protease Inhibitor: nelfinavir* ↑ nelfinavir ↑ M8 metabolite of nelfinavir ↓ lopinavir KALETRA once daily in combination with nelfinavir is not recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . HIV-1 Protease Inhibitor: ritonavir* ↑ lopinavir Appropriate doses of additional ritonavir in combination with KALETRA with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. HIV-1 Protease Inhibitor: saquinavir ↑ saquinavir The saquinavir dose is 1000 mg twice daily, when co-administered with KALETRA 400/100 mg twice daily. KALETRA once daily has not been studied in combination with saquinavir. HIV-1 Protease Inhibitor: tipranavir* ↓ lopinavir Co-administration with tipranavir (500 mg twice daily) and ritonavir (200 mg twice daily) is not recommended. HIV CCR5 – Antagonist: maraviroc* ↑ maraviroc When co-administered, patients should receive 150 mg twice daily of maraviroc. For further details see complete prescribing information for maraviroc. Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors: efavirenz*, nevirapine* ↓ lopinavir Increase the dose of KALETRA tablets to 500/125 mg when KALETRA tablet is co-administered with efavirenz or nevirapine. KALETRA once daily in combination with efavirenz or nevirapine is not recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor: delavirdine ↑ lopinavir Appropriate doses of the combination with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor: didanosine KALETRA tablets can be administered simultaneously with didanosine without food. For KALETRA oral solution, it is recommended that didanosine be administered on an empty stomach; therefore, didanosine should be given one hour before or two hours after KALETRA oral solution (given with food). Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor: tenofovir disoproxil fumarate* ↑ tenofovir Patients receiving KALETRA and tenofovir should be monitored for adverse reactions associated with tenofovir. Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors: abacavir zidovudine ↓ abacavir ↓ zidovudine The clinical significance of this potential interaction is unknown. Other Agents Alpha 1- Adrenoreceptor Antagonist: alfuzosin ↑ alfuzosin Contraindicated due to potential hypotension [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Antianginal: ranolazine ↑ ranolazine Contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Antiarrhythmics: dronedarone ↑ dronedarone Contraindicated due to potential for cardiac arrhythmias [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Antiarrhythmics e.g. amiodarone, bepridil, lidocaine (systemic), quinidine ↑ antiarrhythmics Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring (if available) is recommended for antiarrhythmics when co-administered with KALETRA. Anticancer Agents: abemaciclib, apalutamide, encorafenib, ibrutinib, ivosidenib, dasatinib, neratinib, nilotinib, venetoclax, vinblastine, vincristine ↑ anticancer agents ↓lopinavir/ritonavir # Apalutamide is contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to KALETRA or to the class of protease inhibitors [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid co-administration of encorafenib or ivosidenib with KALETRA due to potential risk of serious adverse events such as QT interval prolongation. If co-administration of encorafenib with KALETRA cannot be avoided, modify dose as recommended in encorafenib USPI. If co-administration of ivosidenib with KALETRA cannot be avoided, reduce ivosidenib dose to 250 mg once daily. Avoid use of neratinib, venetoclax or ibrutinib with KALETRA. For vincristine and vinblastine, consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the ritonavir-containing antiretroviral regimen in patients who develop significant hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects when KALETRA is administered concurrently with vincristine or vinblastine. If the antiretroviral regimen must be withheld for a prolonged period, consideration should be given to initiating a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A or P-gp inhibitor. A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of nilotinib and dasatinib may be necessary for patients requiring co-administration with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as KALETRA. Please refer to the nilotinib and dasatinib prescribing information for dosing instructions. Anticoagulants: warfarin, rivaroxaban ↑↓ warfarin ↑ rivaroxaban Concentrations of warfarin may be affected. Initial frequent monitoring of the INR during KALETRA and warfarin co-administration is recommended. Avoid concomitant use of rivaroxaban and KALETRA. Co-administration of KALETRA and rivaroxaban may lead to increased risk of bleeding. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin ↓ lopinavir ↓ phenytoin KALETRA may be less effective due to decreased lopinavir plasma concentrations in patients taking these agents concomitantly and should be used with caution. KALETRA once daily in combination with carbamazepine, phenobarbital, or phenytoin is not recommended. In addition, co-administration of phenytoin and KALETRA may cause decreases in steady-state phenytoin concentrations. Phenytoin levels should be monitored when co-administering with KALETRA. Anticonvulsants: lamotrigine, valproate ↓ lamotrigine ↓ or ↔ valproate A dose increase of lamotrigine or valproate may be needed when co-administered with KALETRA and therapeutic concentration monitoring for lamotrigine may be indicated; particularly during dosage adjustments. Antidepressant: bupropion ↓ bupropion ↓ active metabolite, hydroxybupropion Patients receiving KALETRA and bupropion concurrently should be monitored for an adequate clinical response to bupropion. Antidepressant: trazodone ↑ trazodone Adverse reactions of nausea, dizziness, hypotension and syncope have been observed following co-administration of trazodone and ritonavir. A lower dose of trazodone should be considered. Anti-infective: clarithromycin ↑ clarithromycin For patients with renal impairment, adjust clarithromycin dose as follows: For patients on KALETRA with CL CR 30 to 60 mL/min the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%. For patients on KALETRA with CL CR < 30 mL/min the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 75%. No dose adjustment for patients with normal renal function is necessary. Antifungals: ketoconazole*, itraconazole, voriconazole isavuconazonium sulfate* ↑ ketoconazole ↑ itraconazole ↓ voriconazole ↑ isavuconazonium High doses of ketoconazole (>200 mg/day) or itraconazole (> 200 mg/day) are not recommended. The coadministration of voriconazole and KALETRA should be avoided unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Isavuconazonium and Kaletra should be coadministered with caution. Alternative antifungal therapies should be considered in these patients. Anti-gout: colchicine ↑ colchicine Contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . For patients with normal renal or hepatic function: Treatment of gout flares-co-administration of colchicine in patients on KALETRA: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) x 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Dose to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares-co-administration of colchicine in patients on KALETRA: If the original colchicine regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original colchicine regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF)-co-administration of colchicine in patients on KALETRA: Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterial: rifampin ↓ lopinavir Contraindicated due to potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance to KALETRA or to the class of protease inhibitors or other co-administered antiretroviral agents [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Antimycobacterial: bedaquiline ↑ bedaquiline Bedaquiline should only be used with KALETRA if the benefit of co-administration outweighs the risk. Antimycobacterial: rifabutin* ↑ rifabutin and rifabutin metabolite Dosage reduction of rifabutin by at least 75% of the usual dose of 300 mg/day is recommended (i.e., a maximum dose of 150 mg every other day or three times per week). Increased monitoring for adverse reactions is warranted in patients receiving the combination. Further dosage reduction of rifabutin may be necessary. Antiparasitic: atovaquone ↓ atovaquone Clinical significance is unknown; however, increase in atovaquone doses may be needed. Antipsychotics: lurasidone pimozide ↑ lurasidone ↑ pimozide Contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Antipsychotics: quetiapine ↑ quetiapine Initiation of KALETRA in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking KALETRA: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Contraceptive: ethinyl estradiol* ↓ ethinyl estradiol Because contraceptive steroid concentrations may be altered when KALETRA is co-administered with oral contraceptives or with the contraceptive patch, alternative methods of nonhormonal contraception are recommended. Dihydropyridine Calcium Channel Blockers: e.g. felodipine, nifedipine, nicardipine ↑ dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers Clinical monitoring of patients is recommended and a dose reduction of the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker may be considered. Disulfiram/metronidazole KALETRA oral solution contains ethanol, which can produce disulfiram-like reactions when co-administered with disulfiram or other drugs that produce this reaction (e.g., metronidazole). Endothelin Receptor Antagonists: bosentan ↑ bosentan Co-administration of bosentan in patients on KALETRA: In patients who have been receiving KALETRA for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Co-administration of KALETRA in patients on bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of KALETRA. After at least 10 days following the initiation of KALETRA, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Ergot Derivatives: dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, methylergonovine ↑ ergot derivatives Contraindicated due to potential for acute ergot toxicity characterized by peripheral vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . GI Motility Agent: cisapride ↑ cisapride Contraindicated due to potential for cardiac arrhythmias [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . GnRH Receptor Antagonists: elagolix ↑ elagolix ↓ lopinavir/ritonavir Concomitant use of elagolix 200 mg twice daily and KALETRA for more than 1 month is not recommended due to potential risk of adverse events such as bone loss and hepatic transaminase elevations. Limit concomitant use of elagolix 150 mg once daily and KALETRA to 6 months. Hepatitis C direct acting antiviral: elbasvir/grazoprevir ↑ elbasvir/grazoprevir Contraindicated due to increased risk of alanine transaminase (ALT) elevations [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Hepatitis C direct acting antivirals: boceprevir* glecaprevir/pibrentasvir simeprevir sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ ritonavir and dasabuvir* ↓ lopinavir ↓ boceprevir ↓ ritonavir ↑glecaprevir ↑ pibrentasvir ↑ simeprevir ↑ sofosbuvir ↑ velpatasvir ↑ voxilaprevir ↑ ombitasvir ↑ paritaprevir ↑ ritonavir ↔ dasabuvir It is not recommended to co-administer KALETRA and boceprevir, glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, simeprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir, or ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir. Herbal Products: St. John's Wort (hypericum perforatum) ↓ lopinavir Contraindicated due to potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to KALETRA or to the class of protease inhibitors [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Lipid-modifying agents HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: lovastatin simvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) Inhibitor: lomitapide ↑ lovastatin ↑ simvastatin ↑ atorvastatin ↑ rosuvastatin ↑ lomitapide Contraindicated due to potential for myopathy including rhabdomyolysis [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Use atorvastatin with caution and at the lowest necessary dose. Titrate rosuvastatin dose carefully and use the lowest necessary dose; do not exceed rosuvastatin 10 mg/day. Lomitapide is a sensitive substrate for CYP3A4 metabolism. CYP3A4 inhibitors increase the exposure of lomitapide, with strong inhibitors increasing exposure approximately 27-fold. Concomitant use of moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide is contraindicated due to potential for hepatotoxicity [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Immunosuppressants: e.g. cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus ↑ immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for immunosuppressant agents when co-administered with KALETRA. Kinase Inhibitors: fostamatinib (also see anticancer agents above) ↑ fostamatinib metabolite R406 Monitor for toxicities of R406 such as hepatotoxicity and neutropenia. Fostamatinib dose reduction may be required. Long-acting beta-adrenoceptor Agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Concurrent administration of salmeterol and KALETRA is not recommended. The combination may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations and sinus tachycardia. Narcotic Analgesics: methadone,* fentanyl ↓ methadone ↑ fentanyl Dosage of methadone may need to be increased when co-administered with KALETRA. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended when fentanyl is concomitantly administered with KALETRA. PDE5 inhibitors: avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil ↑ avanafil ↑ sildenafil ↑ tadalafil ↑ vardenafil Sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (Revatio ® ) is contraindicated due to the potential for sildenafil-associated adverse events, including visual abnormalities, hypotension, prolonged erection, and syncope [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Do not use KALETRA with avanafil because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Particular caution should be used when prescribing sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil in patients receiving KALETRA. Co-administration of KALETRA with these drugs may result in an increase in PDE5 inhibitor associated adverse reactions including hypotension, syncope, visual changes and prolonged erection. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Sildenafil (Revatio ® ) is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . The following dose adjustments are recommended for use of tadalafil (Adcirca ® ) with KALETRA: Co-administration of ADCIRCA in patients on KALETRA: In patients receiving KALETRA for at least one week, start ADCIRCA at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Co-administration of KALETRA in patients on ADCIRCA: Avoid use of ADCIRCA during the initiation of KALETRA. Stop ADCIRCA at least 24 hours prior to starting KALETRA. After at least one week following the initiation of KALETRA, resume ADCIRCA at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: It is recommended not to exceed the following doses: • Sildenafil: 25 mg every 48 hours • Tadalafil: 10 mg every 72 hours • Vardenafil: 2.5 mg every 72 hours Use with increased monitoring for adverse events. Sedative/Hypnotics: triazolam, orally administered midazolam ↑ triazolam ↑ midazolam Contraindicated due to potential for prolonged or increased sedation or respiratory depression [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Sedative/Hypnotics: parenterally administered midazolam ↑ midazolam If KALETRA is co-administered with parenteral midazolam, close clinical monitoring for respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation should be exercised and dosage adjustment should be considered. Systemic/Inhaled/ Nasal/Ophthalmic Corticosteroids: e.g., betamethasone budesonide ciclesonide dexamethasone fluticasone methylprednisolone mometasone prednisone triamcinolone ↓ lopinavir ↑ glucocorticoids Coadministration with oral dexamethasone or other systemic corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to lopinavir. Consider alternative corticosteroids. Coadministration with corticosteroids whose exposures are significantly increased by strong CYP3A inhibitors can increase the risk for Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Alternative corticosteroids including beclomethasone and prednisolone (whose PK and/or PD are less affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors relative to other studied steroids) should be considered, particularly for long-term use. * see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) for magnitude of interaction. # refers to interaction with apalutamide. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with KALETRA Drug interaction or clinical studies reveal no clinically significant interaction between KALETRA and desipramine (CYP2D6 probe), etravirine, pitavastatin, pravastatin, stavudine, lamivudine, omeprazole, raltegravir, ranitidine, or rilpivirine. Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between KALETRA and dapsone, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, azithromycin, erythromycin, or fluconazole.
