Drug: lovotibeglogene_autotemcel

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. LYFGENIA is not expected to interact with the hepatic cytochrome P-450 family of enzymes or drug transporters. Anti-retrovirals : Discontinue anti-retroviral medications at least one month prior to mobilization and until all cycles of apheresis are completed. There are some long-acting anti-retroviral medications that may require a longer duration of discontinuation for elimination of the medication. ( 7.2 ) Hydroxyurea : Discontinue 2 months prior to mobilization and 2 days prior to conditioning. ( 7.3 ) Iron chelation : Discontinue at least 7 days prior to mobilization and conditioning. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Live Vaccines Follow institutional guidelines for vaccine administration. The safety of immunization with live viral vaccines during or following LYFGENIA treatment has not been studied. Recommendations for vaccination schedules should be followed as per guidelines post-autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant and functional asplenia. 7.2 Anti-retrovirals Patients should not take anti-retroviral medications for at least one month prior to mobilization for required and until all cycles of apheresis are completed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . There are some long-acting anti-retroviral medications that may require a longer duration of discontinuation for elimination of the medication. Anti-retroviral medications may interfere with manufacturing of LYFGENIA. 7.3 Hydroxyurea Patients should not take hydroxyurea for at least 2 months prior to mobilization and until all cycles of apheresis are completed and should discontinue 2 days prior to initiation of conditioning [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 7.4 Iron Chelation Drug-drug interactions between iron chelators and the mobilization process and myeloablative conditioning agent must be considered. Iron chelators should be discontinued at least 7 days prior to initiation of mobilization or conditioning. Myelosuppressive iron chelators (e.g., deferiprone) should be restarted no sooner than 6 months after LYFGENIA infusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Non-myelosuppressive iron chelation should be restarted no sooner than 3 months after LYFGENIA infusion. Phlebotomy can be used in lieu of iron chelation, when appropriate.
