Drug: lurasidone_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Table 34: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] . Examples: Ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original level when used concomitantly with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Examples: Diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers [see Contraindications (4)] . Examples: Rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be increased when used concomitantly with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Examples: Bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of lurasidone hydrochloride is required when administered concomitantly with lithium, valproate, or substrates of P-gp or CYP3A4 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .
