Drug: macimorelin_acetate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs that Prolong QT Interval Co-administration of MACRILEN with drugs that prolong the QT interval (such as antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, haloperidol, thioridazine, ziprasidone), antibiotics (e.g., moxifloxacin), Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) and Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications or any other medications known to prolong the QT interval) may lead to development of torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Avoid concomitant use of MACRILEN with drugs that prolong the QT interval. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of MACRILEN is recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 7.2 Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 Inducers Co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer with MACRILEN (e.g., carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenytoin, rifampin, St. John's wort, bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, armodafinil, rufinamide) may reduce the plasma macimorelin concentrations and may lead to false positive test results. Discontinue strong CYP3A4 inducers prior to MACRILEN use. Sufficient washout time of strong CYP3A4 inducers prior to administration of MACRILEN is recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 7.3 Drugs Affecting Growth Hormone Release The following drugs may impact the accuracy of the MACRILEN diagnostic test. Avoid concomitant use of MACRILEN with the following [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] : Drugs that directly affect the pituitary secretion of growth hormone (such as somatostatin, insulin, glucocorticoids, and cyclooxygenase inhibitors such as aspirin or indomethacin). Drugs that may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations (such as clonidine, levodopa, and insulin). Drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to MACRILEN (such as muscarinic antagonists: atropine, anti-thyroid medication: propylthiouracil, and growth hormone products). Discontinue growth hormone products at least one week before administering the MACRILEN diagnostic test. Sufficient washout time of drugs affecting growth hormone release prior to administration of MACRILEN is recommended.
