Drug: mannitol

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic Drugs and Diuretics: May increase the risk of renal failure; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) Neurotoxic Drugs: May potentiate CNS toxicity of mannitol; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.3 ) Drugs Affected by Electrolyte Imbalances: May result in cardiac adverse reactions; monitor serum electrolytes and discontinue Mannitol Injection if cardiac status worsens. ( 7.4 ) Renally Eliminated Agents: Concomitant use may decrease the effectiveness of agents that undergo significant renal elimination. However, concomitant use of mannitol and lithium may increase risk of lithium toxicity. If concomitant use is necessary, frequently monitor lithium concentrations and for signs of toxicity. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Drugs Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., cyclosporine, aminoglycosides) increases the risk of renal failure following administration of mannitol. Avoid use of nephrotoxic drugs with Mannitol Injection, if possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Diuretics Concomitant administration of other diuretics may potentiate the renal toxicity of mannitol. Avoid use of other diuretics with Mannitol Injection, if possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.3 Neurotoxic Drugs Concomitant administration of systemic neurotoxic drugs (e.g., aminoglycosides) with Mannitol Injection may potentiate the CNS toxicity of mannitol. Avoid use of systemic neurotoxic drugs with Mannitol Injection, if possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 ) ] . 7.4 Drugs Affected by Electrolyte Imbalances The development of electrolyte imbalances (e.g., hyperkalemia, hypokalemia) associated with mannitol administration may result in cardiac adverse reactions in patients receiving drugs that are sensitive to such imbalances (e.g., digoxin, drugs that prolong the QT interval, neuromuscular blocking agents) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . During and following infusion of Mannitol Injection, monitor serum electrolytes and discontinue Mannitol Injection if cardiac status worsens [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.5 Renally Eliminated Drugs Mannitol therapy may increase the elimination and decrease the effectiveness of treatment with drugs that undergo significant renal elimination. Concomitant administration of mannitol with lithium may initially increase the elimination of lithium but may also increase the risk of lithium toxicity if patients develop hypovolemia or renal impairment. In patients receiving lithium, consider holding lithium doses during treatment with Mannitol Injection. In patients requiring concomitant administration of lithium and Mannitol Injection, frequently monitor serum lithium concentrations and for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Interference with Laboratory Tests High concentrations of mannitol can cause false low results for inorganic phosphorus blood concentrations when an assay based on the conversion of phosphate (orthophosphate) to the phosphomolybdate complex is used. Mannitol may produce false positive results in tests for blood ethylene glycol concentrations in which mannitol is initially oxidized to an aldehyde.
