Drug: mavorixafor

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce XOLREMDI daily dosage. ( 2.2 , 7.1 ) P-gp inhibitors or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors: Monitor more frequently for XOLREMDI adverse reactions and reduce XOLREMDI daily dosage if necessary. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 or P-gp substrates: Monitor more frequently for substrate adverse reactions unless otherwise recommended. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on XOLREMDI Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Reduce XOLREMDI daily dosage to 200 mg when used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Monitor more frequently for XOLREMDI adverse reactions that may be associated with an increase in mavorixafor exposure when used concomitantly with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and reduce the XOLREMDI daily dosage by steps of 100 mg, if necessary, but not to a dose less than 200 mg. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases mavorixafor maximal concentrations (C max ) and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of XOLREMDI adverse reactions. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease mavorixafor C max and AUC based upon a mechanistic understanding of its elimination [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce XOLREMDI's effectiveness. P-gp Inhibitors Monitor more frequently for XOLREMDI adverse reactions that may be associated with an increase in mavorixafor exposure when used concomitantly with P-gp inhibitors and reduce the XOLREMDI daily dosage by steps of 100 mg, if necessary, but not to a dose less than 200 mg. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate. Concomitant use with a P-gp inhibitors increases mavorixafor C max and AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of XOLREMDI adverse reactions. 7.2 Effect of XOLREMDI on Other Drugs CYP2D6 Substrates The use of XOLREMDI with drugs that are another drug highly dependent on CYP2D6 for clearance is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Mavorixafor increases exposure of CYP2D6 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. CYP3A4 Substrates Monitor for CYP3A4 substrate related adverse reactions more frequently, unless otherwise recommended in the substrate's Prescribing Information, when XOLREMDI is used concomitantly with CYP3A4 substrates where minimal substrate concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Mavorixafor is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Mavorixafor may increase the C max and AUC of CYP3A4 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions from the CYP3A4 substrate. P-gp Substrates Monitor for P-gp substrate related adverse reactions more frequently, unless otherwise recommended in the substrate's Prescribing Information, when XOLREMDI is used concomitantly with P-gp substrates where minimal substrate concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Digoxin: Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant use with XOLREMDI, and continue monitoring serum digoxin concentrations as recommended in the Prescribing Information for digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Mavorixafor is an inhibitor of P-gp. Mavorixafor may increase the C max and AUC of P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions from the P-gp substrate. Metformin: Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary. Mavorixafor may decrease the mean C max and AUC of metformin, which may reduce metformin's effectiveness. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. 7.3 Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Obtain an electrocardiogram when initiating, during concomitant use, and as clinically indicated in patients receiving concomitant medications with a known potential to prolong the QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . XOLREMDI causes QTc interval prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Concomitant use of XOLREMDI with other products that prolong QTc interval may result in a greater increase in QTc interval and adverse reactions associated with QTc interval prolongation, including torsade de pointes, other serious arrythmias, and sudden death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] .
