Drug: mefenamic_acid

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drug Interactions See Table 1 for clinically significant drug interactions with mefenamic acid. Table1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Mefenamic Acid Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Mefenamic acid and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of mefenamic acid and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of mefenamic acid with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Intervention: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Mefenamic acid is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of mefenamic acid with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Intervention: The concomitant use of mefenamic acid with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed- associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information ). Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Antacid Clinical Impact: Concomitant ingestion of antacids containing magnesium hydroxide has been shown to significantly increase the rate and extent of mefenamic acid absorption [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Intervention: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and antacids is not generally recommended because of possible increased adverse events. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Mefenamic acid may prolong prothrombin time. Therefore, when the drug is administered to patients receiving oral anticoagulant drugs, frequent monitoring of prothrombin time is necessary. A false-positive reaction for urinary bile, using the diazo tablet test, may result after mefenamic acid administration. If biliuria is suspected, other diagnostic procedures, such as the Harrison spot test, should be performed.
7.1 Drug Interactions See Table 1 for clinically significant drug interactions with mefenamic acid. Table1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Mefenamic Acid Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Mefenamic acid and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of mefenamic acid and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of mefenamic acid with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Intervention: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Mefenamic acid is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of mefenamic acid with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Intervention: The concomitant use of mefenamic acid with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed- associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information ). Intervention: During concomitant use of mefenamic acid and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Antacid Clinical Impact: Concomitant ingestion of antacids containing magnesium hydroxide has been shown to significantly increase the rate and extent of mefenamic acid absorption [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Intervention: Concomitant use of mefenamic acid and antacids is not generally recommended because of possible increased adverse events. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Mefenamic acid may prolong prothrombin time. Therefore, when the drug is administered to patients receiving oral anticoagulant drugs, frequent monitoring of prothrombin time is necessary. A false-positive reaction for urinary bile, using the diazo tablet test, may result after mefenamic acid administration. If biliuria is suspected, other diagnostic procedures, such as the Harrison spot test, should be performed.
