Drug: mercaptopurine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Allopurinol : Reduce the dose of mercaptopurine tablets when co-administered with allopurinol. (2.4, 7.1) Warfarin : Mercaptopurine tablets may decrease the anticoagulant effect. (7.2) 7.1 Allopurinol Allopurinol can inhibit the first-pass oxidative metabolism of mercaptopurine by xanthine oxidase, which can lead to an increased risk of mercaptopurine adverse reactions (i.e., myelosuppression, nausea, and vomiting) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . Reduce the dose of mercaptopurine tablets when coadministered with allopurinol [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . 7.2 Warfarin The concomitant administration of mercaptopurine tablets and warfarin may decrease the anticoagulant effectiveness of warfarin. Monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) in patients receiving warfarin and adjust the warfarin dosage as appropriate. 7.3 Myelosuppresive Products Mercaptopurine tablets can cause myelosuppression. Myelosuppression may be increased when mercaptopurine tablets is coadministered with other products that cause myelosuppression. Enhanced myelosuppression has been noted in some patients also receiving trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Monitor the CBC and adjust the dose of mercaptopurine tablets for excessive myelosuppression [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 7.4 Aminosalicylates Aminosalicylates (e.g., mesalamine, olsalazine or sulfasalazine) may inhibit the TPMT enzyme, which may increase the risk of myelosuppression when coadministered with mercaptopurine tablets. When aminosalicylates and mercaptopurine tablets are coadministered, use the lowest possible doses for each drug and monitor more frequently for myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 7.5 Hepatotoxic Products Mercaptopurine tablets can cause hepatotoxicity. Hepatotoxicity may be increased when mercaptopurine tablets is coadministered with other products that cause hepatotoxicity. Monitor liver tests more frequently in patients who are receiving mercaptopurine tablets with other hepatotoxic products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] .
