Drug: meropenem-vaborbactam

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Hormonal Contraceptives: Effectiveness may be reduced; use an effective alternative non-hormonal form of contraception or additional contraceptive method. ( 7.4 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Valproic Acid Case reports in the literature have shown that co-administration of carbapenems, including meropenem, to patients receiving valproic acid or divalproex sodium results in a reduction in valproic acid concentrations. The valproic acid concentrations may drop below the therapeutic range as a result of this interaction, therefore increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures. Although the mechanism of this interaction is unknown, data from in vitro and animal studies suggest that carbapenems may inhibit the hydrolysis of valproic acid's glucuronide metabolite (VPA-g) back to valproic acid, thus decreasing the serum concentrations of valproic acid. If administration of VABOMERE is necessary, then supplemental anti-convulsant therapy should be considered [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.2 Probenecid Probenecid competes with meropenem for active tubular secretion, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of meropenem. Co-administration of probenecid with VABOMERE is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Potential for VABOMERE to Affect Other Drugs When administering VABOMERE concomitantly with medicinal products that are predominantly metabolized by CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C, and/or are substrates of P-gp transporters, there is a potential risk of interaction which may result in decreased plasma concentrations and activity of the co-administered drug(s) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When VABOMERE is concomitantly administered with the substrates of CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C, and/or P-gp, refer to the prescribing information for these concomitant medications for guidance on need for dosage adjustments and/or need for frequent drug level monitoring when administered with a weak CYP inducer(s). When administering VABOMERE concomitantly with medicinal products that are substrate of OAT3 transporters, there is a potential risk of interaction which may result in increased plasma concentrations and activity of the co-administered drug(s) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When VABOMERE is concomitantly administered with OAT3 substrate(s), refer to the prescribing information for these concomitant medication(s) for guidance on need for dosage adjustments and/or need for frequent drug level monitoring when administered with an OAT3 inhibitor(s). 7.4 Hormonal Contraceptives Hormonal contraceptives (e.g., combined oral contraceptives containing a progestin and an estrogen) are metabolized by CYP3A and other pregnane X receptor (PXR)-regulated enzymes. Therefore, the blood concentration and the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced when used with VABOMERE [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Effective alternative non-hormonal forms of contraception or additional contraceptive methods are recommended for patients taking hormonal contraceptives when treated concomitantly with VABOMERE [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].
