Drug: methylphenidate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive Drugs: Monitor blood pressure. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including Methylphenidate Transdermal System, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )] . Concomitant use of Methylphenidate Transdermal System with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. 7.2 Antihypertensive Drugs Methylphenidate Transdermal System may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 7.3 Coumarin Anticoagulants, Antidepressants, and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of coumarin anticoagulants, anticonvulsants (e.g., phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone), and some tricyclic drugs (e.g., imipramine, clomipramine, desipramine) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Downward dose adjustments of these drugs may be required when given concomitantly with methylphenidate. It may be necessary to adjust the dosage and monitor plasma drug concentrations (or, in the case of coumarin, coagulation times), when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate. 7.4 Halogenated Anesthetics Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and methylphenidate may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Avoid use of Methylphenidate Transdermal System in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. 7.5 Risperidone Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change in dosage, whether an increase or decrease, of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Monitor for signs of EPS.
