Drug: methylergonovine

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the co-administration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, strong and moderate CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be co-administered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors include saquinavir grapefruit juice, nefazodone, macrolide antibiotics (e.g., troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Moderate inhibitors include fluconazole, fluvoxamine and clotrimazole. Weak CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Weak inhibitors include chlorzoxazone, cilostazol, and ranitidine. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. CYP3A4 inducers Drugs (e.g. nevirapine, rifampin) that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 are likely to decrease the pharmacological action of methylergonovine maleate. Beta-blockers Caution should be exercised when methylergonovine maleate is used concurrently with beta-blockers. Concomitant administration with beta-blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids. Anesthetics Anesthetics like halothane and methoxyflurane may reduce the oxytocic potency of methylergonovine maleate. Glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs Methylergonovine maleate produces vasoconstriction and can be expected to reduce the effect of glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when methylergonovine maleate is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors, ergot alkaloids, or prostaglandins.
