Drug: methylphenidate_hydrochloride_extended_release

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive drugs: Monitor blood pressure. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed (7.1). • Halogenated anesthetics: Avoid use of Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets on the day of surgery if halogenated anesthetics will be used (7.1). 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets Table 1 presents clinically important drug interactions with Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Table 1: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications (4)] . Intervention Concomitant use of Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Intervention Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed. Examples Potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), beta blockers, centrally acting alpha-2 receptor agonists Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Examples halothane, isoflurane, enflurane, desflurane, sevoflurane Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS
