Drug: metoclopramide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antipsychotics : Potential for additive effects, including TD, EPS, and NMS; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) CNS depressants : Increased risk of CNS depression. Avoid concomitant use and monitor for adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) : See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 7.1 ) MAO inhibitors : Increased risk of hypertension; avoid concomitant use. ( 5.5 , 7.1 ) Additional drug interactions : See Full Prescribing Information. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Table 3 displays the effects of other drugs on metoclopramide. Table 3. Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Antipsychotics Clinical Impact Potential for additive effects, including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia (TD), other extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) ]. Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors, not Included in Antipsychotic Category Above Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of metoclopramide; risk of exacerbation of extrapyramidal symptoms [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention Reduce the metoclopramide dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) ]. Examples quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Increased risk of hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use. Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact Increased risk of CNS depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ]. Intervention Avoid metoclopramide or the interacting drug, depending on the importance of the drug to the patient. Examples alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, opiates and anxiolytics Drugs that Impair Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact Decreased systemic absorption of metoclopramide. Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect. Examples antiperistaltic antidiarrheal drugs, anticholinergic drugs, and opiates Dopaminergic Agonists and Other Drugs that Increase Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Decreased therapeutic effect of metoclopramide due to opposing effects on dopamine. Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect. Examples apomorphine, bromocriptine, cabergoline, levodopa, pramipexole, ropinirole, and rotigotine 7.2 Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Table 4 displays the effects of metoclopramide on other drugs. Table 4. Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Dopaminergic Agonists and Drugs Increasing Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Opposing effects of metoclopramide and the interacting drug on dopamine. Potential exacerbation of symptoms (e.g., parkinsonian symptoms). Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Examples Apomorphine, bromocriptine, cabergoline, levodopa, pramipexole, ropinirole, rotigotine Succinylcholine, Mivacurium Clinical Impact Metoclopramide inhibits plasma cholinesterase leading to enhanced neuromuscular blockade. Intervention Monitor for signs and symptoms of prolonged neuromuscular blockade Drugs with Absorption Altered due to Increased Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact The effect of metoclopramide on other drugs is variable. Increased gastrointestinal (GI) motility by metoclopramide may impact absorption of other drugs leading to decreased or increased drug exposure. Intervention Drugs with Decreased Absorption (e.g., digoxin, atovaquone, posaconazole oral suspension Interaction does not apply to posaconazole delayed-release tablets , fosfomycin) : Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect of the interacting drug. For digoxin monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and increase the digoxin dose as needed (see prescribing information for digoxin). Drugs with Increased Absorption (e.g., sirolimus, tacrolimus, cyclosporine) : Monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and adjust the dose as needed. See prescribing information for the interacting drug. Insulin Clinical Impact Increased GI motility by metoclopramide may increase delivery of food to the intestines and increase blood glucose. Intervention Monitor blood glucose and adjust insulin dosage regimen as needed.
