Drug: midazolam

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions With NAYZILAM 7.1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may result in prolonged sedation because of a decrease in plasma clearance of midazolam. Intervention: Avoid co-administration of NAYZILAM with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. NAYZILAM should be used with caution when co-administered with mild CYP3A4 inhibitors. Examples: Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors: erythromycin, diltiazem, verapamil Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin 7.2 Opioids Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Examples: Morphine, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, codeine, fentanyl 7.3 Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of barbiturates, alcohol, or other CNS depressants may increase the risk of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, desaturation, or apnea and may contribute to profound and/or prolonged drug effect. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Examples: Other benzodiazepines and sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, opioids, alcohol. CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Avoid co-administration of NAYZILAM with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. NAYZILAM should be used with caution when co-administered with mild CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 7.1 ) Opioids : Risk of respiratory depression is increased. ( 7.2 ) Other CNS Depressants : May increase the risks of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, desaturation, or apnea and may contribute to profound and/or prolonged drug effect. ( 7.3 )
