Drug: mifepristone

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 inducers can lower mifepristone concentrations. ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase mifepristone concentrations. Use with caution. ( 7.2 ) CYP3A4 substrate concentrations can be increased. Caution with coadministration of substrates with narrow therapeutic margin. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Drugs that May Reduce Mifepristone Tablets, 200 mg Exposure (Effect of CYP 3A4 Inducers on Mifepristone Tablets, 200 mg) CYP450 3A4 is primarily responsible for the metabolism of mifepristone. CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampin, dexamethasone, St. John's Wort, and certain anticonvulsants (such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine) may induce mifepristone metabolism (lowering serum concentrations of mifepristone). Whether this action has an impact on the efficacy of the dose regimen is unknown. Refer to the follow-up assessment [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] to verify that treatment has been successful. 7.2 Drugs that May Increase Mifepristone Tablets, 200 mg Exposure (Effect of CYP 3A4 Inhibitors on Mifepristone Tablets, 200 mg) Although specific drug or food interactions with mifepristone have not been studied, on the basis of this drug's metabolism by CYP 3A4, it is possible that ketoconazole, itraconazole erythromycin, and grapefruit juice may inhibit its metabolism (increasing serum concentrations of mifepristone). Mifepristone Tablets, 200 mg should be used with caution in patients currently or recently treated with CYP 3A4 inhibitors. 7.3 Effects of Mifepristone Tablets, 200 mg on Other Drugs (Effect of Mifepristone Tablets, 200 mg on CYP 3A4 Substrates) Based on in vitro inhibition information, coadministration of mifepristone may lead to an increase in serum concentrations of drugs that are CYP 3A4 substrates. Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body, such interaction may be observed for a prolonged period after its administration. Therefore, caution should be exercised when mifepristone is administered with drugs that are CYP 3A4 substrates and have a narrow therapeutic range.
