Drug: mitapivat

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A Inhibitors and Inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Do not titrate PYRUKYND beyond 20 mg twice daily. ( 7.1 ) Moderate CYP3A Inducers: Consider alternatives that are not moderate inducers. If there are no alternatives, adjust PYRUKYND dosage. ( 7.1 ) Sensitive CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C substrates including hormonal contraceptives: Avoid concomitant use with substrates that have narrow therapeutic index. ( 7.2 ) UGT1A1 Substrates: Avoid concomitant use with substrates that have narrow therapeutic index. ( 7.2 ) P-gp Substrates: Avoid concomitant use with substrates that have narrow therapeutic index. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on PYRUKYND Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Co-administration of PYRUKYND with strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased mitapivat plasma concentrations may increase the risks of adverse reactions of PYRUKYND. Prevention or Management Avoid co-administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors with PYRUKYND [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Co-administration of PYRUKYND with moderate CYP3A inhibitors will increase mitapivat plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Monitor Hb and for increased risks of adverse reactions with PYRUKYND. Do not titrate PYRUKYND beyond 20 mg twice daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Strong CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact Co-administration of PYRUKYND with strong CYP3A inducers decreased mitapivat plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Decreased mitapivat plasma concentrations will reduce the efficacy of PYRUKYND. Prevention or Management Avoid co-administration of strong CYP3A inducers with PYRUKYND [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact Co-administration of PYRUKYND with moderate CYP3A inducers will decrease mitapivat plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Consider alternative therapies that are not moderate CYP3A inducers during treatment with PYRUKYND. If there are no alternative therapies, monitor Hb and titrate beyond 50 mg twice daily, if necessary, but do not exceed a maximum recommended dose of 100 mg twice daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . 7.2 Effect of PYRUKYND on Other Drugs CYP3A Substrates Clinical Impact PYRUKYND induces CYP3A. Co-administration of PYRUKYND will decrease systemic concentrations of drugs that are sensitive CYP3A substrates, including hormonal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect of sensitive CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic index when co- administered with PYRUKYND. Advise patients using hormonal contraceptives to use an alternative non-hormonal contraceptive method or add a barrier method of contraception during treatment with PYRUKYND. CYP2B6 and CYP2C Substrates Clinical Impact PYRUKYND induces CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 enzymes in vitro , and may decrease systemic concentrations of drugs that are sensitive substrates of these enzymes [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect of sensitive substrates of these enzymes with narrow therapeutic index when co-administered with PYRUKYND. UGT1A1 Substrates Clinical Impact PYRUKYND induces UGT1A1 in vitro and may decrease systemic concentrations of drugs that are UGT1A1 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect of UGT1A1 substrates with narrow therapeutic index when co-administered with PYRUKYND. P-gp Substrates Clinical Impact PYRUKYND inhibits the P-gp transporter in vitro and may increase systemic concentrations of drugs that are P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Monitor patients for adverse reactions of P-gp substrates with narrow therapeutic index when co-administered with PYRUKYND.
