Drug: nalbuphine_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Although Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection possesses opioid antagonist activity, there is evidence that in nondependent patients it will not antagonize an opioid analgesic administered just before, concurrently, or just after an injection of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection. Therefore, due to additive pharmacologic effects, the concomitant use of other opioid analgesics, benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants such as alcohol, other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see WARNINGS ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOI (e.g., phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid) interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Drug Interactions ] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma [see Warnings ]). The use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression.
