Drug: naloxegol_oxalate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., diltiazem, erythromycin, verapamil) : Increased naloxegol concentrations; avoid concomitant use; if unavoidable, reduce dosage to 12.5 mg once daily and monitor for adverse reactions. (2.4 , 7.1) Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin) : Decreased concentrations of naloxegol; concomitant use is not recommended. (7.1) Other opioid antagonists : Potential for additive effect and increased risk of opioid withdrawal; avoid concomitant use. (7.1) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on MOVANTIK Table 2 displays the effects of other drugs on MOVANTIK. Table 2. Effects of Other Drugs on MOVANTIK Concomitant Agent Mechanism of Action Clinical Recommendation CYP3A4 Inhibitors Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin) Increase plasma naloxegol concentrations and may increase the risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Use with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., diltiazem, erythromycin, verapamil) Avoid use with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors; if unavoidable, decrease the dosage of MOVANTIK to 12.5 mg once daily and monitor for adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Weak CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, cimetidine) Clinically significant increases in naloxegol concentrations are not expected. No dosage adjustments are necessary. Grapefruit or grapefruit juice The effect of grapefruit juice varies widely among brands and is concentration-, dose-, and preparation-dependent. Studies have shown that it can be classified as a “strong CYP3A inhibitor” when a certain preparation was used (e.g., high dose, double strength) or as a “moderate CYP3A inhibitor” when another preparation was used (e.g., low dose, single strength). Can increase plasma naloxegol concentrations. Avoid consumption of grapefruit or grapefruit juice during treatment with MOVANTIK [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . CYP3A4 Inducers Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, St. John’s Wort) Significantly decrease plasma naloxegol concentrations and may decrease the efficacy of MOVANTIK [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use with strong CYP3A4 inducers is not recommended . Other Drug Interactions Other opioid antagonists Potential for additive effect of opioid receptor antagonism and increased risk of opioid withdrawal. Avoid use of MOVANTIK with another opioid antagonist.
