Drug: naproxen_and_esomeprazole_magnesium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 and Table 4 for clinically significant drug interactions and interactions with diagnostics with naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Naproxen and Esomeprazole Magnesium – Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Naproxen and Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and Interactions with Diagnostics Clinical Impact: Naproxen • Naproxen and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of naproxen and anticoagulants have increased the risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone • Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Esomeprazole Magnesium • Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients treated with PPIs, including esomeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. • Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg resulted in reduced plasma Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. Clopidogrel: Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel with naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets. Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.22) ]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: A pharmacodynamics (PD) study has demonstrated an interaction in which lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2.) ]. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the PD study due to the longer washout period. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events following discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics where appropriate. Concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets are not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: • NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). • In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: • During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. • During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of esomeprazole magnesium on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole magnesium may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole magnesium may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with esomeprazole magnesium. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . A tazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. N elfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets. S aquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. Other antiretrovirals : See prescribing information of specific drugs. Cilostazol Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of cilostazol and one of its active metabolites (3,4-dihydro-cilostazol) when coadministered with omeprazole magnesium, the racemate of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider reducing the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Naproxen • The concomitant use of naproxen with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Esomeprazole Magnesium • Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations during concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets. Dose adjustment of digoxin may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations of plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Naproxen • Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Esomeprazole Magnesium • Concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.27) ] . Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. A temporary withdrawal of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium and tacrolimus may increase exposure of tacrolimus Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and tacrolimus, monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Intervention: The concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, mycophenoloate mofetil, ketoconazole) Clinical Impact: Esomeprazole magnesium can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole, of which esomeprazole magnesium is an enantiomer, in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole and MMF. Use naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA levels may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.26) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Temporarily stop naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Diazepam Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of diazepam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor patients for increased sedation and adjust the dose of diazepam as needed. Table 4: Clinically Significant Interactions with Esomeprazole Magnesium -- Affecting Co-Administered Drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of esomeprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: St. John’s Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.25) ]. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Voriconazole: Avoid concomitant use with naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release tablets. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 )
