Drug: nateglinide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when concomitantly administered or withdrawn with nateglinide tablets and instructions for managing or preventing them. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Nateglinide Drugs That May Increase the Blood-Glucose-Lowering Effect of Nateglinide and Susceptibility to Hypoglycemia Drugs: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), salicylates, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, non-selective beta-adrenergic-blocking agents, anabolic hormones (e.g. methandrostenolone), guanethidine, gymnema sylvestre, glucomannan, thioctic acid, and inhibitors of CYP2C9 (e.g. amiodarone, fluconazole, voriconazole, sulfinpyrazone), or in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2C9 substrates, alcohol. Intervention: Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when nateglinide tablets are coadministered with these drugs. Drugs and Herbals That May Reduce the Blood-Glucose-Lowering Effect of Nateglinide and Increase Susceptibility to Hyperglycemia Drugs : Thiazides, corticosteroids, thyroid products, sympathomimetics, somatropin, somatostatin analogues (e.g. lanreotide, octreotide), and CYP inducers (e.g. rifampin, phenytoin and St John’s Wort). Intervention: Dose increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when nateglinide tablets are coadministered with these drugs. Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs: beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when nateglinide tablets are co-administered with these drugs.Drugs: beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine Intervention: Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when nateglinide tablets are coadministered with these drugs. • Drugs That May Increase the Potential for Hypoglycemia : Nateglinide dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co-administered ( 7 ) • Drugs That May Increase the Potential for Hyperglycemia : Nateglinide dose increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co-administered ( 7 ) • Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co-administered ( 7 )
