Drug: neratinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Gastric acid reducing agents: Avoid concomitant use with proton pump inhibitors. Separate NERLYNX by at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after H 2 -receptor antagonists. Or separate NERLYNX by at least 3 hours after antacids. ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) P-gp and moderate CYP3A4 dual inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Certain P-gp substrates: Monitor for adverse reactions of P-gp substrates for which minimal concentration change may lead to serious adverse reactions when used concomitantly with NERLYNX. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on NERLYNX Table 10 includes drug interactions that affect the pharmacokinetics of neratinib. Table 10: Drug Interactions that Affect NERLYNX AUC=Area Under Curve; C max =Maximum Concentration Gastric Acid Reducing Agents Clinical Impact Concomitant use of NERLYNX with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), H 2 -receptor antagonist, or antacid may decrease neratinib AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may reduce NERLYNX activity. Prevention or Management [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] Avoid concomitant use of PPIs. Separate administration of NERLYNX at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the H 2 -receptor antagonist dose. Separate administration of NERLYNX by at least 3 hours after antacids. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of NERLYNX with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased neratinib C max and AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of NERLYNX toxicity. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of NERLYNX with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. P-gp and Moderate CYP3A4 Dual Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of NERLYNX with a P-gp and moderate CYP3A4 dual inhibitor may increase neratinib C max and AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of NERLYNX toxicity. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of NERLYNX with P-gp and moderate CYP3A4 dual inhibitors. Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact Concomitant use of NERLYNX with a strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced neratinib C max and AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce NERLYNX activity. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of NERLYNX with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers. 7.2 Effect of NERLYNX on Other Drugs Certain P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates Concomitant use of NERLYNX increased concentrations of a P-gp substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates. Monitor for adverse reactions of certain P-gp substrates for which minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions.
