Drug: nicardipine

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Beta-Blockers In controlled clinical studies, adrenergic beta-receptor blockers have been frequently administered concomitantly with nicardipine hydrochloride. The combination is well tolerated. Cimetidine Cimetidine increases nicardipine hydrochloride plasma levels. Patients receiving the two drugs concomitantly should be carefully monitored. Digoxin Some calcium blockers may increase the concentration of digitalis preparations in the blood. Nicardipine hydrochloride usually does not alter the plasma levels of digoxin; however, serum digoxin levels should be evaluated after concomitant therapy with nicardipine hydrochloride is initiated. Maalox ® 2 Co-administration of Maalox TC had no effect on nicardipine hydrochloride absorption. Fentanyl Anesthesia Severe hypotension has been reported during fentanyl anesthesia with concomitant use of a beta-blocker and a calcium channel blocker. Even though such interactions were not seen during clinical studies with nicardipine hydrochloride, an increased volume of circulating fluids might be required if such an interaction were to occur. Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and cyclosporine results in elevated plasma cyclosporine levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Plasma concentrations of cyclosporine should therefore be closely monitored, and its dosage reduced accordingly, in patients treated with nicardipine. Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and tacrolimus may result in elevated plasma tacrolimus levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Closely monitor plasma concentrations of tacrolimus during nicardipine administration, and adjust the dose of tacrolimus accordingly. When therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine or naproxen were added to human plasma ( in vitro ), the plasma protein binding of nicardipine hydrochloride was not altered.
