Drug: nicardipine_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cimetidine increases nicardipine plasma levels ( 7.3 ). Nicardipine may increase cyclosporine and tacrolimus plasma levels. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended when co-administering nicardipine. ( 7.5 , 7.6 ). 7.1 Antihypertensive Agents Since nicardipine hydrochloride injection may be administered to patients already being treated with other medications, including other antihypertensive agents, careful monitoring of these patients is necessary to detect and to treat promptly any undesired effects from concomitant administration. 7.2 Beta-Blockers In most patients, nicardipine hydrochloride injection can safely be used concomitantly with beta-blockers. However, monitor response carefully when combining nicardipine hydrochloride injection with a beta-blocker in the treatment of congestive heart failure patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.3 Cimetidine Cimetidine has been shown to increase nicardipine plasma concentrations with oral nicardipine administration. Carefully monitor patients receiving the two drugs concomitantly. Data with other histamine-2 antagonists are not available. 7.4 Digoxin Studies have shown that oral nicardipine usually does not alter digoxin plasma concentrations. 7.5 Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and cyclosporine results in elevated plasma cyclosporine levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Monitor closely plasma concentrations of cyclosporine during nicardipine hydrochloride injection administration, and adjust the dose of cyclosporine accordingly. 7.6 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of intravenous nicardipine and tacrolimus may result in elevated plasma tacrolimus levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Closely monitor plasma concentrations of tacrolimus during nicardipine administration, and adjust the dose of tacrolimus accordingly. 7.7 In Vitro Interaction The plasma protein binding of nicardipine was not altered when therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine, or naproxen were added to human plasma in vitro.
