Drug: nirmatrelvir_and_ritonavir

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of PAXLOVID can alter the plasma concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the plasma concentrations of PAXLOVID. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during PAXLOVID therapy and review concomitant medications during PAXLOVID therapy. ( 4 , 5.1 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Potential for PAXLOVID to Affect Other Drugs PAXLOVID (nirmatrelvir co-packaged with ritonavir) is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A, and an inhibitor of CYP2D6, P-gp and OATP1B1. Co-administration of PAXLOVID with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A and CYP2D6 or are transported by P-gp or OATP1B1 may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs and increase the risk of adverse events. Co-administration of PAXLOVID with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.3) Table 2 ] . Co-administration with other CYP3A substrates may require a dose adjustment or additional monitoring as shown in Table 2. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect PAXLOVID Nirmatrelvir and ritonavir are CYP3A substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A may decrease nirmatrelvir and ritonavir plasma concentrations and reduce PAXLOVID therapeutic effect [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.3) Table 2 ] . 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 2 provides a listing of clinically significant drug interactions, including contraindicated drugs [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Drugs listed in Table 2 are a guide and not considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may interact with PAXLOVID. The healthcare provider should consult other appropriate resources such as the prescribing information for the interacting drug for comprehensive information on dosing or monitoring with concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor such as ritonavir. Table 2: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Drug Class Drugs within Class Effect on Concentration Clinical Comments Alpha 1- adrenoreceptor antagonist alfuzosin ↑ alfuzosin Co-administration contraindicated due to potential hypotension [see Contraindications (4) ] . Alpha 1- adrenoreceptor antagonist tamsulosin ↑ tamsulosin Avoid concomitant use with PAXLOVID. Antianginal ranolazine ↑ ranolazine Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions [see Contraindications (4) ] . Antiarrhythmics amiodarone, dronedarone, flecainide, propafenone, quinidine ↑ antiarrhythmic Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for cardiac arrhythmias [see Contraindications (4) ] . Antiarrhythmics lidocaine (systemic), disopyramide ↑ antiarrhythmic Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for antiarrhythmics if available. Anticancer drugs apalutamide, enzalutamide ↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir Co-administration contraindicated due to potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ]. Anticancer drugs abemaciclib, ceritinib, dasatinib, encorafenib, ibrutinib, ivosidenib, neratinib, nilotinib, venetoclax, vinblastine, vincristine ↑ anticancer drugs Avoid co-administration of encorafenib or ivosidenib due to potential risk of serious adverse events such as QT interval prolongation. Avoid use of neratinib, venetoclax or ibrutinib. Co-administration of vincristine and vinblastine may lead to significant hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. For further information, refer to the individual product prescribing information for anticancer drug. Anticoagulants warfarin ↑↓ warfarin Closely monitor international normalized ratio (INR) if co-administration with warfarin is necessary. rivaroxaban ↑ rivaroxaban Increased bleeding risk with rivaroxaban. Avoid concomitant use. dabigatran See Pharmacokinetics, Clinical Drug Interaction Studies (12.3) . ↑ dabigatran Increased bleeding risk with dabigatran. Depending on dabigatran indication and renal function, reduce dose of dabigatran or avoid concomitant use. Refer to the dabigatran prescribing information for further information. apixaban ↑ apixaban Combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitors increase blood levels of apixaban and increase the risk of bleeding. Dosing recommendations for co-administration of apixaban with PAXLOVID depend on the apixaban dose. Refer to the apixaban prescribing information for more information. Anticonvulsants carbamazepine , phenobarbital, primidone, phenytoin ↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir Co-administration contraindicated due to potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ] . Anticonvulsants clonazepam ↑ anticonvulsant A dose decrease may be needed for clonazepam when co-administered with PAXLOVID and clinical monitoring is recommended. Antidepressants bupropion ↓ bupropion and active metabolite hydroxy-bupropion Monitor for an adequate clinical response to bupropion. trazodone ↑ trazodone Adverse reactions of nausea, dizziness, hypotension, and syncope have been observed following co-administration of trazodone and ritonavir. A lower dose of trazodone should be considered. Refer to the trazadone prescribing information for further information. Antifungals voriconazole ↓ voriconazole Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole. ketoconazole, isavuconazonium sulfate, itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole ↑ isavuconazonium sulfate ↑ itraconazole Refer to the ketoconazole, isavuconazonium sulfate, and itraconazole prescribing information for further information. ↑ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir A nirmatrelvir/ritonavir dose reduction is not needed. Anti-gout colchicine ↑ colchicine Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) ] . Anti-HIV protease inhibitors atazanavir, darunavir, tipranavir ↑ protease inhibitor For further information, refer to the respective protease inhibitors' prescribing information. Patients on ritonavir- or cobicistat-containing HIV regimens should continue their treatment as indicated. Monitor for increased PAXLOVID or protease inhibitor adverse events . Anti-HIV efavirenz, maraviroc, nevirapine, zidovudine, bictegravir/ emtricitabine/ tenofovir ↑ efavirenz ↑ maraviroc ↑ nevirapine ↓ zidovudine ↑ bictegravir ↔ emtricitabine ↑ tenofovir For further information, refer to the respective anti-HIV drugs prescribing information. Anti-infective clarithromycin, erythromycin ↑ clarithromycin ↑ erythromycin Refer to the respective prescribing information for anti-infective dose adjustment. Antimycobacterial rifampin, rifapentine ↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir Co-administration contraindicated due to potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance. Alternate antimycobacterial drugs such as rifabutin should be considered [see Contraindications (4) ] . Antimycobacterial bedaquiline ↑ bedaquiline Refer to the bedaquiline prescribing information for further information. rifabutin ↑ rifabutin Refer to the rifabutin prescribing information for further information on rifabutin dose reduction. Antipsychotics lurasidone, pimozide ↑ lurasidone ↑ pimozide Co-administration contraindicated due to serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias [see Contraindications (4) ] . Antipsychotics quetiapine ↑ quetiapine If co-administration is necessary, reduce quetiapine dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations. clozapine ↑ clozapine If co-administration is necessary, consider reducing the clozapine dose and monitor for adverse reactions. Benign prostatic hyperplasia agents silodosin ↑ silodosin Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for postural hypotension [see Contraindications (4) ] . Calcium channel blockers amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil ↑ calcium channel blocker Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring of patients is recommended. A dose decrease may be needed for these drugs when co-administered with PAXLOVID. If co-administered, refer to the individual product prescribing information for calcium channel blocker for further information. Cardiac glycosides digoxin ↑ digoxin Caution should be exercised when co-administering PAXLOVID with digoxin, with appropriate monitoring of serum digoxin levels. Refer to the digoxin prescribing information for further information. Cardiovascular agents eplerenone ↑ eplerenone Co-administration with eplerenone is contraindicated due to potential for hyperkalemia [see Contraindications (4) ] . ivabradine ↑ ivabradine Co-administration with ivabradine is contraindicated due to potential for bradycardia or conduction disturbances [see Contraindications (4) ] . Cardiovascular agents aliskiren, ticagrelor, vorapaxar clopidogrel ↑ aliskiren ↑ ticagrelor ↑ vorapaxar ↓ clopidogrel active metabolite Avoid concomitant use with PAXLOVID. cilostazol ↑ cilostazol Dosage adjustment of cilostazol is recommended. Refer to the cilostazol prescribing information for more information. mavacamten ↑ mavacamten Co-administration with mavacamten may increase mavacamten plasma concentration and increase the risk of heart failure. Discontinue mavacamten for the duration of PAXLOVID treatment. Resumption of mavacamten within 5 days of completing PAXLOVID may result in higher exposure of mavacamten. Refer to the mavacamten prescribing information for more information. Corticosteroids primarily metabolized by CYP3A betamethasone, budesonide, ciclesonide, dexamethasone, fluticasone, methylprednisolone, mometasone, triamcinolone ↑ corticosteroid Co-administration with corticosteroids (all routes of administration) of which exposures are significantly increased by strong CYP3A inhibitors can increase the risk for Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. However, the risk of Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression associated with short-term use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is low. Alternative corticosteroids including beclomethasone, prednisone, and prednisolone should be considered. Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator potentiators lumacaftor/ivacaftor ↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir Co-administration contraindicated due to potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ] . Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator potentiators ivacaftor elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ ivacaftor tezacaftor/ivacaftor ↑ ivacaftor ↑ elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ ivacaftor ↑ tezacaftor/ivacaftor Reduce dosage when co-administered with PAXLOVID. Refer to the individual product prescribing information for more information. Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitors saxagliptin ↑ saxagliptin Dosage adjustment of saxagliptin is recommended. Refer to the saxagliptin prescribing information for more information. Endothelin receptor antagonists bosentan ↑ bosentan ↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of PAXLOVID. Refer to the bosentan prescribing information for further information. Ergot derivatives dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, methylergonovine ↑ dihydroergotamine ↑ ergotamine ↑ methylergonovine Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for acute ergot toxicity characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system [see Contraindications (4) ] . Hepatitis C direct acting antivirals elbasvir/grazoprevir ↑ antiviral Increased grazoprevir concentrations can result in alanine transaminase (ALT) elevations. glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Avoid concomitant use of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir with PAXLOVID. ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir Refer to the ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir label for further information. sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Refer to the sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir prescribing information for further information. Patients on ritonavir-containing HCV regimens should continue their treatment as indicated. Monitor for increased PAXLOVID or HCV drug adverse events with concomitant use . Herbal products St. John's Wort ( hypericum perforatum ) ↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir Co-administration contraindicated due to potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ] . HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors lovastatin, simvastatin ↑ lovastatin ↑ simvastatin Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for myopathy including rhabdomyolysis [see Contraindications (4) ] . If treatment with PAXLOVID is considered medically necessary, discontinue use of lovastatin and simvastatin at least 12 hours prior to initiation of PAXLOVID, during the 5 days of PAXLOVID treatment, and for 5 days after completing PAXLOVID. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors atorvastatin ↑ atorvastatin Consider temporary discontinuation of atorvastatin during treatment with PAXLOVID. Atorvastatin does not need to be withheld prior to or after completing PAXLOVID. Hormonal contraceptive ethinyl estradiol ↓ ethinyl estradiol An additional, non-hormonal method of contraception should be considered during the 5 days of PAXLOVID treatment and until one menstrual cycle after stopping PAXLOVID. Immunosuppressants voclosporin ↑ voclosporin Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for acute and/or chronic nephrotoxicity [see Contraindications (4) ] . Immunosuppressants calcineurin inhibitors: cyclosporine, tacrolimus ↑ cyclosporine ↑ tacrolimus Avoid concomitant use of calcineurin inhibitors with PAXLOVID when close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations is not feasible. If co-administered, dose adjustment of the immunosuppressant and close and regular monitoring for immunosuppressant concentrations and adverse reactions are recommended during and after treatment with PAXLOVID. Obtain expert consultation to appropriately manage the complexity of this co-administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . mTOR inhibitors: everolimus, sirolimus ↑ everolimus ↑ sirolimus Avoid concomitant use of everolimus and sirolimus and PAXLOVID. Refer to the individual immunosuppressant prescribing information and latest guidelines for further information. Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors tofacitinib ↑ tofacitinib Dosage adjustment of tofacitinib is recommended. Refer to the tofacitinib prescribing information for more information. upadacitinib ↑ upadacitinib Dosing recommendations for co-administration of upadacitinib with PAXLOVID depends on the upadacitinib indication. Refer to the upadacitinib prescribing information for more information. Long-acting beta-adrenoceptor agonist salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Avoid concomitant use with PAXLOVID. The combination may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) inhibitor lomitapide ↑ lomitapide Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for hepatotoxicity and gastrointestinal adverse reactions [see Contraindications (4) ] . Migraine medications eletriptan ↑ eletriptan Co-administration of eletriptan within at least 72 hours of PAXLOVID is contraindicated due to potential for serious adverse reactions including cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events [see Contraindications (4) ] . ubrogepant ↑ ubrogepant Co-administration of ubrogepant with PAXLOVID is contraindicated due to potential for serious adverse reactions [see Contraindications (4) ] . Migraine medications rimegepant ↑ rimegepant Avoid concomitant use with PAXLOVID. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists finerenone ↑ finerenone Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for serious adverse reactions including hyperkalemia, hypotension, and hyponatremia [see Contraindications (4) ] . Muscarinic receptor antagonists darifenacin ↑ darifenacin The darifenacin daily-dose should not exceed 7.5 mg when co-administered with PAXLOVID. Refer to the darifenacin prescribing information for more information. Narcotic analgesics fentanyl, hydrocodone, oxycodone, meperidine ↑ fentanyl ↑ hydrocodone ↑ oxycodone ↑ meperidine Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended when fentanyl, hydrocodone, oxycodone, or meperidine is concomitantly administered with PAXLOVID. If concomitant use with PAXLOVID is necessary, consider a dosage reduction of the narcotic analgesic and monitor patients closely at frequent intervals. Refer to the individual product prescribing information for more information. methadone ↓ methadone Monitor methadone-maintained patients closely for evidence of withdrawal effects and adjust the methadone dose accordingly. Neuropsychiatric agents suvorexant ↑ suvorexant Avoid concomitant use of suvorexant with PAXLOVID. aripiprazole, brexpiprazole, cariprazine, iloperidone, lumateperone, pimavanserin ↑ aripiprazole ↑ brexpiprazole ↑ cariprazine ↑ iloperidone ↑ lumateperone ↑ pimavanserin Dosage adjustment of aripiprazole, brexpiprazole, cariprazine, iloperidone, lumateperone, and pimavanserin is recommended. Refer to the individual product prescribing information for more information. Non-opioid analgesic (selective blocker of Na v 1.8 sodium channels) suzetrigine ↑ suzetrigine and active metabolite M6‑SUZ Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening suzetrigine adverse reactions [see Contraindications (4) ] . Opioid antagonists naloxegol ↑ naloxegol Co-administration contraindicated due to the potential for opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Contraindications (4) ] . Pulmonary hypertension agents (PDE5 inhibitors) sildenafil (Revatio ® ) ↑ sildenafil Co-administration of sildenafil with PAXLOVID is contraindicated for use in pulmonary hypertension due to the potential for sildenafil associated adverse events, including visual abnormalities hypotension, prolonged erection, and syncope [see Contraindications (4) ] . Pulmonary hypertension agents (PDE5 inhibitors) tadalafil (Adcirca ® ) ↑ tadalafil Avoid concomitant use of tadalafil with PAXLOVID for pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary hypertension agents (sGC stimulators) riociguat ↑ riociguat Dosage adjustment is recommended for riociguat when used for pulmonary hypertension. Refer to the riociguat prescribing information for more information. Erectile dysfunction agents (PDE5 inhibitors) avanafil ↑ avanafil Do not use PAXLOVID with avanafil because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil ↑ sildenafil ↑ tadalafil ↑ vardenafil Dosage adjustment is recommended for use of sildenafil, tadalafil or vardenafil with PAXLOVID when used for erectile dysfunction. Refer to the individual product prescribing information for more information. Sedative/hypnotics triazolam, oral midazolam ↑ triazolam ↑ midazolam Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for extreme sedation and respiratory depression [see Contraindications (4) ] . Sedative/hypnotics buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, zolpidem ↑ sedative/hypnotic A dose decrease may be needed for these drugs when co-administered with PAXLOVID and monitoring for adverse events. midazolam (administered parenterally) ↑ midazolam Co-administration of midazolam (parenteral) should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Refer to the midazolam prescribing information for further information. Serotonin receptor 1A agonist/ serotonin receptor 2A antagonist flibanserin ↑ flibanserin Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for hypotension, syncope, and CNS depression [see Contraindications (4) ] . Vasopressin receptor antagonists tolvaptan ↑ tolvaptan Co-administration contraindicated due to potential for dehydration, hypovolemia and hyperkalemia [see Contraindications (4) ] .
