Drug: nirogacestat

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Gastric acid reducing agents: Avoid concomitant use with proton pump inhibitors and H2-receptor antagonists. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, OGSIVEO administration can be staggered with antacids. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effect s of Other Drugs on OGSIVEO Table 4. Effects of Other Drugs on OGSIVEO Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Effect Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate. Strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors increase nirogacestat exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of OGSIVEO adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of OGSIVEO with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors including grapefruit products, Seville oranges, and starfruit. Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Effect Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate. Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers decrease serum nirogacestat exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce the effectiveness of OGSIVEO. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of OGSIVEO with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers. Gastric Acid Reducing Agents Clinical Effect Nirogacestat is poorly soluble at pH ≥ 6. Gastric acid reducing agents may decrease serum nirogacestat exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may reduce the effectiveness of OGSIVEO. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with proton pump inhibitors and H2 blockers. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, OGSIVEO can be staggered with antacids (e.g., administer OGSIVEO 2 hours before or 2 hours after antacid use). 7.2 Effects of OGSIVEO on Other Drugs Table 5. Effects of OGSIVEO on Other Drugs Certain CYP3ASubstrates Clinical Effect Nirogacestat increases exposure of CYP3A substrates [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with CYP3A substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Certain CYP2C19 Substrates Clinical Effect Nirogacestat decreases exposure of CYP2C19 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may decrease efficacy of these substrates. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with OGSIVEO where decreased concentrations of CYP2C19 substrates may lead to significant decreases in efficacy of the CYP2C19 substrate unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for the CYP2C19 substrate.
