Drug: octreotide_acetate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drugs require monitoring and possible dose adjustment when used with octreotide acetate for injectable suspension: cyclosporine, insulin, oral hypoglycemic agents, beta-blockers, and bromocriptine ( 7 ) Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate Injection: Discontinue octreotide acetate for injectable suspension at least 4 weeks prior to each lutetium Lu 177 dotatate dose ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of octreotide injection with cyclosporine may decrease blood levels of cyclosporine and result in transplant rejection. 7.2 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Drugs Octreotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Therefore, blood glucose levels should be monitored when octreotide acetate for injectable suspension treatment is initiated and when the dose is altered and anti-diabetic treatment should be adjusted accordingly. 7.3 Bromocriptine Concomitant administration of octreotide and bromocriptine increases the availability of bromocriptine. 7.4 Other Concomitant Drug Therapy Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., beta-blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with octreotide. Dose adjustments of concomitant medication may be necessary. Octreotide has been associated with alterations in nutrient absorption, so it may have an effect on absorption of orally administered drugs. 7.5 Drug Metabolism Interactions Limited published data indicate that somatostatin analogs may decrease the metabolic clearance of compounds known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, which may be due to the suppression of growth hormone. Since it cannot be excluded that octreotide may have this effect, other drugs mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 and which have a low therapeutic index (e.g., quinidine, terfenadine) should therefore be used with caution. 7.6 Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate Injection Octreotide competitively binds to somatostatin receptors and may interfere with the efficacy of lutetium Lu 177 dotatate. Discontinue octreotide acetate for injectable suspension at least 4 weeks prior to each lutetium Lu 177 dotatate dose.
