Drug: octreotide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Proton Pump Inhibitors, H2-receptor Antagonists, or Antacids: may decrease bioavailability of MYCAPSSA and the MYCAPSSA dose may need to be increased (‎ 7 ). Cyclosporine : may have decreased bioavailability and require dose adjustment ( 7 ). Insulin and Antidiabetic Drugs: patients receiving insulin or antidiabetic drugs agents may require dose adjustment (‎ 7 ). Digoxin: exposure may be decreased and assessment of clinical response to digoxin should be performed (‎ 7 ). Lisinopril: bioavailability may be increased, monitor patient's blood pressure and adjust dose of lisinopril if needed (‎ 7 ). Levonorgestrel: counsel women to use an alternative non-hormonal method of contraception or a back-up method when MYCAPSSA is used with combined oral contraceptives (‎ 7 ). Bromocriptine: dose adjustment of bromocriptine may be necessary (‎ 7 ). Beta Blocker and Calcium Channel Blockers : dose adjustment of beta blockers or calcium channel blockers may be necessary (‎ 7 ). Drugs Metabolized by CYP 450 Enzymes: concomitant use with other drugs mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 that have a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., quinidine) should be used with caution and increased monitoring may be required (‎ 7 ). 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on MYCAPSSA Proton Pump Inhibitors, H2-receptor Antagonists, or Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with esomeprazole resulted in a decrease in the bioavailability for MYCAPSSA [ See Clinical Pharmacology (‎12.3) ] . Drugs that alter the pH of the upper GI tract (e.g., other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), H2-receptor antagonists, and antacids) may alter the absorption of MYCAPSSA and lead to a reduction in bioavailability. Intervention: Co-administration of MYCAPSSA with PPIs, H2-blockers, or antacids may require increased doses of MYCAPSSA. 7.2 Effects of MYCAPSSA on Other Drugs Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with cyclosporine resulted in a decrease in cyclosporine bioavailability [see Clinical Pharmacology (‎12.3) ]. Intervention: Adjustment of cyclosporine dose to maintain therapeutic levels may be necessitated. Insulin and Antidiabetic Drugs Clinical Impact: MYCAPSSA inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Intervention: Monitor blood glucose levels in diabetic patients upon MYCAPSSA initiation and subsequent dose adjustment. Patients receiving insulin or antidiabetic drugs agents may require dose adjustment of these therapeutic agents. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with digoxin resulted in a decrease in digoxin peak exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (‎12.3) ]. Intervention: Digoxin has a narrow therapeutic ratio and careful assessment of clinical response should be performed when digoxin is concomitantly administered with MYCAPSSA. Lisinopril Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA increases lisinopril bioavailability [see Clinical Pharmacology (‎12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor patient's blood pressure and adjust the dosage of lisinopril if needed. Levonorgestrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with levonorgestrel decreases levonorgestrel bioavailability [see Clinical Pharmacology (‎12.3) ] . Intervention: Decreased bioavailability may potentially diminish the effectiveness of combined oral contraceptives (COCs) or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel women to use an alternative non-hormonal method of contraception or a back-up method when MYCAPSSA is used with COCs. Bromocriptine Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with bromocriptine may increase the systemic exposure of bromocriptine [see Clinical Pharmacology (‎12.3) ]. Intervention: Dose adjustment of bromocriptine may be necessary. Beta Blocker and Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact: MYCAPSSA may cause bradycardia in acromegaly patients. Intervention: Patients receiving beta blockers or calcium channel blockers may require dose adjustments of these therapeutic agents. Drugs Metabolized by CYP 450 Enzymes Clinical Impact: Limited published data indicate that somatostatin analogs including MYCAPSSA may decrease the metabolic clearance of compounds known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, which may be due to the suppression of GH. Intervention: Concomitant use with other drugs mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 that have a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., quinidine) should be used with caution and increased monitoring may be required.
