Drug: olmesartan_medoxomil_and_amlodipine_besylate_and_hydrochlorothiazide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil ( 7.1 ): • Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS): May lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect. • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. • Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose. • Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity. Amlodipine ( 7.2 ): • Limit simvastatin to 20 mg daily when coadministered. • Increased exposure to cyclosporin and tacrolimus • Increased amlodipine exposure when coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors Hydrochlorothiazide ( 7.3 ): • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. • NSAIDs: Can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. 7.1 Drug Interactions with Olmesartan Medoxomil Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [See Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Use with Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of olmesartan or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine Simvastatin Co-administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily. [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. CYP3A Inhibitors Co-administration of amlodipine with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment. CYP3A Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inducers. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins: Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single dose of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% and 43%, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH: Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs: In some patients the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patients should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained.
