Drug: olmesartan_medoxomil

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing potassium levels may lead to increase in serum potassium ( 7.1 ). NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ). Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ). Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity ( 7.4 ). Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ). 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of olmesartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium. If co-medication is considered necessary, monitoring of serum potassium is advisable. 7.2 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.3 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR less than 60 ml/min). 7.4 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil tablets. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7.5 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .
