Drug: olsalazine_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Nephrotoxic Agents including Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) : Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) • Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood dyscrasias; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. ( 7.2 ) • Low Molecular Weight Heparins or Heparinoids : Increased risk of bleeding following neuraxial anesthesia; if possible, discontinue DIPENTUM or closely monitor for bleeding. ( 7.1 ) • Varicella Vaccine : Avoid use for 6 weeks after vaccination. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including non‑steroidal anti‑inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6‑mercaptopurine and/or any other drugs known to cause myelotoxicity (e.g., thioguanine) may increase the risk for blood disorders, bone marrow failure, and associated complications. If concomitant use of DIPENTUM and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. 7.3 Low Molecular Weight Heparins or Heparinoids The co-administration of salicylates and low molecular weight heparins or heparinoids may result in an increased risk of bleeding (i.e., hematomas) following neuraxial anesthesia. Discontinue DIPENTUM prior to the initiation of a low molecular weight heparin or heparinoid. If this is not possible, it is recommended to monitor patients closely for bleeding. 7.4 Varicella Vaccine Avoid DIPENTUM, and other salicylates, for six weeks after the varicella vaccine to avoid a possible increased risk of developing Reye’s syndrome. 7.5 Interference With Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of DIPENTUM, which is converted to mesalamine, may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Consider an alternative, selective assay for normetanephrine.
