Drug: ondansetron_hcl

=== Drug Interactions ===
7. Drug Interactions 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome (including altered mental status, autonomic instability, and neuromuscular symptoms) has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs, including SSRIs and SNRIs. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.3)]. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP1A2), inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and, hence, the half-life of ondansetron. In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 (i.e., phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampin), the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased. However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.3 Tramadol Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed, data from 2 small trials indicate that when used together, ondansetron may increase patient-controlled administration of tramadol. Monitor patients to ensure adequate pain control when ondansetron is administered with tramadol. 7.4 Chemotherapy Carmustine, etoposide, and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron. In a crossover trial in 76 pediatric patients, intravenous ondansetron did not increase systemic concentrations of high-dose methotrexate. 7.5 Alfentanil and Atracurium Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium. Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied.
