Drug: oritavancin_diphosphate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Effect of KIMYRSA on CYP Substrates A screening drug-drug interaction study indicated that oritavancin is a nonspecific, weak inhibitor (CYP2C9 and CYP2C19) or inducer (CYP3A4 and CYP2D6) of several CYP isoforms [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . A drug-drug interaction study that assessed the interaction potential of a single 1,200 mg dose of oritavancin on the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin (CYP2C9 probe substrate) showed no effect of oritavancin on S-warfarin C max or AUC. Avoid administering KIMYRSA concomitantly with drugs that are predominantly metabolized by one of the affected CYP450 enzymes, as co-administration may increase or decrease concentrations of those drugs. Patients should be closely monitored for signs of toxicity or lack of efficacy if they have been given KIMYRSA while on a potentially affected compound (e.g., patients should be monitored for bleeding if concomitantly receiving KIMYRSA and warfarin). 7.2 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Prolongation of Certain Laboratory Coagulation Tests KIMYRSA may artificially prolong certain laboratory coagulation tests (see Table 2 ) by binding to and preventing the action of the phospholipid reagents which activate coagulation in commonly used laboratory coagulation tests [see Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.5) ] . For patients who require monitoring of anticoagulation effect within the indicated time after KIMYRSA dosing, a non-phospholipid dependent coagulation test such as a Factor Xa (chromogenic) assay or an alternative anticoagulant not requiring aPTT monitoring may be considered. Oritavancin does not interfere with coagulation in vivo. In addition, oritavancin does not affect tests that are used for diagnosis of Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia (HIT). Table 2: Coagulation Tests Affected and Unaffected by Oritavancin Elevated by Oritavancin Unaffected by Oritavancin Prothrombin time (PT) up to 12 hours Chromogenic Factor Xa Assay International normalized ratio (INR) up to 12 hours Thrombin Time (TT) Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) up to 120 hours Activated clotting time (ACT) up to 24 hours Silica clot time (SCT) up to 18 hours Dilute Russell's viper venom time (DRVVT) up to 72 hours D-dimer up to 72 hours Positive Indirect and Direct Antiglobulin Tests (IAT/DAT) Positive IAT/DAT were noted with administration of oritavancin products, including KIMYRSA, in studies with healthy volunteers and patients with ABSSSI. Positive IAT may interfere with cross-matching before blood transfusion [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.6) ] .
