Drug: oxaprozin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with oxaprozin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Oxaprozin Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact • Oxaprozin and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of oxaprozin and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. • Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention Monitor patients with concomitant use of oxaprozin with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), (SSRIs), and (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Aspirin Clinical Impact Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Intervention Concomitant use of oxaprozin and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. Oxaprozin is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact • NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propranolol). • In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention • During concomitant use of oxaprozin and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. • During concomitant use of oxaprozin and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. • When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention During concomitant use of oxaprozin with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Digoxin Clinical Impact The concomitant use of oxaprozin with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention During concomitant use of oxaprozin and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance . The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention During concomitant use of oxaprozin and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction) because NSAID administration may result in increased plasma levels of methotrexate, especially in patients receiving high doses of methotrexate. Intervention During concomitant use of oxaprozin and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact Concomitant use of oxaprozin and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention During concomitant use of oxaprozin and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of oxaprozin with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention The concomitant use of oxaprozin with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact Concomitant use of oxaprozin and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention During concomitant use of oxaprozin and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Corticosteroids Clinical Impact Concomitant use of corticosteroids with oxaprozin may increase the risk of GI ulceration or bleeding. Intervention Monitor patients with concomitant use of oxaprozin with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Glyburide Clinical Impact While oxaprozin does alter the pharmacokinetics of glyburide, coadministration of oxaprozin to type II non-insulin dependent diabetic patients did not affect the area under the glucose concentration curve nor the magnitude or duration of control. Intervention During concomitant use of oxaprozin and glyburide, monitor patient's blood glucose in the beginning phase of cotherapy. Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for benzodiazepines have been reported in patients taking oxaprozin. This is due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False-positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of oxaprozin therapy. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish oxaprozin from benzodiazepines. • Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]/serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors [SNRIs]) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking oxaprozin with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of oxaprozin and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) • Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with oxaprozin may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with oxaprozin in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) • Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) • Digoxin : Concomitant use with oxaprozin can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7 )
