Drug: oxycodone_hcl

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions with OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS. Table 4: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.7), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3, 5.6)] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome . Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Intervention: The use of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.6)]. Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. CNS Depressants : Concomitant use may cause hypotension, profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If co-administration is required and the decision to begin OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS is made, start with 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage, consider using a lower dosage of the concomitant CNS depressant, and monitor closely. ( 2.7 , 5.6 , 7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS if serotonin syndrome is suspected. (7) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS because they may reduce analgesic effect of OXYCODONE HCl EXTENDED-RELEASE TABLETS or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.14 , 7 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) : Can potentiate the effects of morphine. Avoid concomitant use in patients receiving MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping treatment with an MAOI. (7)
