Drug: ozanimod_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 5 and 6 include drugs with clinically important drug and vaccine interactions when administered concomitantly with ZEPOSIA and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 5: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs and Vaccines Co-administered with ZEPOSIA Anti-Neoplastic, Immune-Modulating, or Non-Corticosteroid Immunosuppressive Therapies Clinical Impact: ZEPOSIA has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic, immune-modulating, or non-corticosteroid immunosuppressive therapies with the exception of cyclosporine, which had no pharmacokinetic interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management: Caution should be used during concomitant administration because of the risk of additive immune effects during such therapy and in the weeks following administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . When switching from drugs with prolonged immune effects, the half-life and mode of action of these drugs must be considered in order to avoid unintended additive immunosuppressive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . Alemtuzumab : Initiating treatment with ZEPOSIA after alemtuzumab is not recommended because of the characteristics and duration of alemtuzumab immune suppressive effects. Beta interferon or glatiramer acetate : ZEPOSIA can generally be started immediately after discontinuation of beta interferon or glatiramer acetate. Anti-Arrhythmic Drugs, QT Prolonging Drugs, Drugs That May Decrease Heart Rate Clinical Impact: ZEPOSIA has not been studied in patients taking QT prolonging drugs. Class Ia (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) and Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) anti-arrhythmic drugs have been associated with cases of Torsades de Pointes in patients with bradycardia. Prevention or Management: If treatment with ZEPOSIA is considered in patients on Class Ia or Class III anti-arrhythmic drugs, advice from a cardiologist should be sought [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Because of the potential additive effects on heart rate, treatment with ZEPOSIA should generally not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with QT prolonging drugs with known arrhythmogenic properties [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. If treatment initiation with ZEPOSIA is considered in patients on QT prolonging drugs, advice from a cardiologist should be sought. Combination Beta Blocker and Calcium Channel Blocker Clinical Impact : The co-administration of ZEPOSIA with both a beta blocker and a calcium channel blocker has not been studied. However, there is a potential of additive effects on heart rate. Prevention or Management: Treatment with ZEPOSIA should generally not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with both a heart rate lowering calcium channel blocker (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem) and beta blocker [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. If treatment initiation with ZEPOSIA is considered in patients on both a heart rate lowering calcium channel blocker and beta blocker, advice from a cardiologist should be sought. Vaccination Clinical Impact: During, and for up to three months after, discontinuation of treatment with ZEPOSIA, vaccinations may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection. Prevention or Management: Live attenuated vaccines should be avoided during ZEPOSIA treatment and for up to 3 months after discontinuation of treatment with ZEPOSIA [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Table 6: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting ZEPOSIA When Co-administered with Other Drugs Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The effect of MAO inhibition on ozanimod and/or its metabolites has not been studied clinically. Potential effects on efficacy or safety with co-administration of MAO inhibitors because of altered exposures of ozanimod and/or its metabolites cannot be ruled out. Prevention or Management: Co-administration of ZEPOSIA with MAO inhibitors (e.g., selegiline, phenelzine, linezolid) is contraindicated. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of ZEPOSIA and initiation of treatment with MAO inhibitors. Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Co-administration of ZEPOSIA with strong CYP2C8 inhibitors increases the exposure of the active metabolites of ozanimod [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of ZEPOSIA adverse reactions. Prevention or Management: Co-administration of ZEPOSIA with strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) is not recommended. Strong CYP2C8 Inducers Clinical Impact: Co-administration of ZEPOSIA with strong CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) reduces the exposure of the major active metabolites of ozanimod [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may decrease the efficacy of ZEPOSIA. Prevention or Management: Co-administration of ZEPOSIA with strong CYP2C8 inducers should be avoided. • Vaccination : Avoid use of live attenuated vaccines during and for up to 3 months after treatment with ZEPOSIA. ( 7 ) • See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 )
