Drug: paliperidone_palmitate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may occur when co-administered with INVEGA SUSTENNA. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers : Avoid using a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin, St John's Wort) during a dosing interval for INVEGA SUSTENNA. If administering a strong inducer is necessary, consider managing the patient using paliperidone extended-release tablets. ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with INVEGA SUSTENNA Because paliperidone palmitate is hydrolyzed to paliperidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , results from studies with oral paliperidone should be taken into consideration when assessing drug-drug interaction potential. Table 13. Clinically Important Drug Interactions with INVEGA SUSTENNA Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Centrally Acting Drugs and Alcohol Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone, concomitant use of centrally acting drugs and alcohol may modulate the CNS effects of INVEGA SUSTENNA. INVEGA SUSTENNA should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) ] . Drugs with Potential for Inducing Orthostatic Hypotension Because INVEGA SUSTENNA has the potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may occur when INVEGA SUSTENNA is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Monitor orthostatic vital signs in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Strong Inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin, or St. John's Wort) The concomitant use of paliperidone and strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp may decrease the exposure of paliperidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid using CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inducers with INVEGA SUSTENNA during the 1-month dosing interval, if possible. If administering a strong inducer is necessary, consider managing the patient using paliperidone extended-release tablets [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Levodopa and Other Dopamine Agonists Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Monitor and manage patient as clinically appropriate. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with INVEGA SUSTENNA Clinically meaningful pharmacokinetic interaction between INVEGA SUSTENNA and valproate (including valproic acid and divalproex sodium) is not expected. Based on pharmacokinetic studies with oral paliperidone, no dosage adjustment of INVEGA SUSTENNA is required when administered with valproate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate when co-administered with INVEGA SUSTENNA [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA SUSTENNA is also unlikely. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be involved in paliperidone metabolism; however, there is no evidence in vivo that inhibitors of these enzymes significantly affect the metabolism of paliperidone. Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19; an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]
