Drug: paroxetine_hydrochloride_hemihydrate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 9 presents clinically significant drug interactions with paroxetine tablets. Table 9: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paroxetine Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SSRIs, including paroxetine tablets, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Paroxetine tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Pimozide and Thioridazine Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of pimozide and thioridazine, drugs with a narrow therapeutic index, may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. Intervention Paroxetine tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide or thioridazine [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with paroxetine tablets increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of paroxetine tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Examples other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John’s Wort. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with paroxetine tablets may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of paroxetine Tablets and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Examples aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin, warfarin Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Clinical Impact Paroxetine tablets are highly bound to plasma protein. The concomitant use of paroxetine tablets with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of paroxetine tablets or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma . Intervention Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of paroxetine Tablets or other protein-bound drugs as warranted. Examples Warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Paroxetine tablets are a CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The concomitant use of paroxetine tablets with a CYP2D6 substrate may increase the exposure of the CYP2D6 substrate. Intervention Decrease the dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate if needed with concomitant paroxetine Tablets use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate may be needed if paroxetine tablets are discontinued. Examples propafenone, flecainide, atomoxetine, desipramine, dextromethorphan, metoprolol, nebivolol, perphenazine, tolterodine, venlafaxine, risperidone. Tamoxifen Clinical Impact Concomitant use of tamoxifen with paroxetine tablets may lead to reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite (endoxifen) and reduced efficacy of tamoxifen Intervention Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Fosamprenavir/Ritonavir Clinical Impact Co-administration of fosamprenavir/ritonavir with paroxetine Tablets significantly decreased plasma levels of paroxetine Tablets. Intervention Any dose adjustment should be guided by clinical effect (tolerability and efficacy). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein : Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of paroxetine tablets or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted. ( 7 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 : Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 as warranted. ( 7 ) Concomitant use with tamoxifen : Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition. ( 5.11 , 7 )
