Drug: pazopanib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Avoid coadministration of pazopanib with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of pazopanib. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 Inducers : Consider an alternate concomitant medication with no or minimal enzyme induction potential. Pazopanib is not recommended if chronic use of strong CYP3A4 inducers cannot be avoided. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) CYP Substrates : Coadministration of pazopanib with agents with narrow therapeutic windows that are metabolized by CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or CYP2C8 is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) Concomitant Use with Simvastatin : Concomitant use of pazopanib with simvastatin increases the risk of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations. Increase to weekly monitoring of liver function as recommended. Withhold pazopanib and resume at reduced dose, or permanently discontinue based on severity of hepatotoxicity. ( 7.3 ) Concomitant Use With Gastric Acid-Reducing Agents : Avoid concomitant use of pazopanib with gastric acid-reducing agents. Consider short-acting antacids in place of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and H2-receptor antagonists. Separate antacid and pazopanib dosing by several hours. ( 2.4 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Pazopanib Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration of pazopanib with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 increases pazopanib concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Avoid coadministration of pazopanib with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors and consider an alternate concomitant medication with no or minimal enzyme inhibition potential. If coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of pazopanib [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration of strong CYP3A4 inducers may decrease plasma pazopanib concentrations. Consider an alternate concomitant medication with no or minimal enzyme induction potential. Pazopanib is not recommended if chronic use of strong CYP3A4 inducers cannot be avoided [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . Transporters Coadministration of strong inhibitors of P-gp or BCRP may increase pazopanib concentrations. Avoid concomitant use of pazopanib with strong inhibitors of P-gp or BCRP. Consider selection of alternative concomitant medicinal products with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp or BCRP. 7.2 Effects of Pazopanib on Other Drugs CYP Substrates Coadministration of pazopanib with agents with narrow therapeutic windows that are metabolized by CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or CYP2C8 may result in inhibition of the metabolism of these products and create the potential for serious adverse reactions. The concomitant use of pazopanib with agents with narrow therapeutic windows that are metabolized by CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or CYP2C8 is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Concomitant Use with Simvastatin Concomitant use of pazopanib with simvastatin increases the incidence of ALT elevations. Across clinical trials of pazopanib as a single agent, ALT > 3 × ULN was reported in 126/895 (14%) of patients who did not use statins compared with 11/41 (27%) of patients who had concomitant use of simvastatin. If a patient receiving concomitant simvastatin develops ALT elevations, increase to weekly monitoring of liver function as recommended. Withhold pazopanib and resume at reduced dose, or permanently discontinue based on severity of hepatotoxicity [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Insufficient data are available to assess the risk of concomitant administration of alternative statins and pazopanib. 7.4 Concomitant Use with Gastric Acid-Reducing Agents Concomitant use of pazopanib with esomeprazole, a PPI, decreased the exposure of pazopanib. Avoid concomitant use of pazopanib with gastric acid-reducing agents. If concomitant administration with a gastric acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, consider short-acting antacids in place of PPIs and H2-receptor antagonists. Separate short-acting antacid and pazopanib dosing by several hours to avoid a reduction in pazopanib exposure [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.5 Drugs That Prolong the QT Interval Pazopanib is associated with QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Avoid coadministration of pazopanib with drugs known to prolong the QT/QTc interval.
