Drug: pegvaliase-pqpz

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effect of Palynziq on Other PEGylated Products : Monitor for hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, with concomitant treatment. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effect of Palynziq on Other PEGylated Products In a single dose study of Palynziq in adult patients with PKU, two patients receiving concomitant injections of medroxyprogesterone acetate suspension (a formulation containing PEG 3350) experienced a hypersensitivity reaction. One of the two patients experienced a hypersensitivity reaction on day 15 after a single Palynziq dosage of 0.67 mg within 15 minutes following medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, and subsequently experienced anaphylaxis on day 89 within 30 minutes after the next dose of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. The other patient experienced a hypersensitivity reaction on day 40 after a single Palynziq dosage of 0.08 mg within 10 minutes following medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. Both patients had high anti‑PEG IgG antibody titers at or around the time of the hypersensitivity reactions. In Palynziq clinical trials, the majority of patients developed anti‑PEG IgM and IgG antibodies after treatment with Palynziq [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . The clinical effects of concomitant treatment with different PEGylated products is unknown. Monitor patients treated with Palynziq and concomitantly with other PEGylated products for hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis.
7.1 Effect of Palynziq on Other PEGylated Products In a single dose study of Palynziq in adult patients with PKU, two patients receiving concomitant injections of medroxyprogesterone acetate suspension (a formulation containing PEG 3350) experienced a hypersensitivity reaction. One of the two patients experienced a hypersensitivity reaction on day 15 after a single Palynziq dosage of 0.67 mg within 15 minutes following medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, and subsequently experienced anaphylaxis on day 89 within 30 minutes after the next dose of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. The other patient experienced a hypersensitivity reaction on day 40 after a single Palynziq dosage of 0.08 mg within 10 minutes following medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. Both patients had high anti‑PEG IgG antibody titers at or around the time of the hypersensitivity reactions. In Palynziq clinical trials, the majority of patients developed anti‑PEG IgM and IgG antibodies after treatment with Palynziq [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . The clinical effects of concomitant treatment with different PEGylated products is unknown. Monitor patients treated with Palynziq and concomitantly with other PEGylated products for hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis.
