Drug: pentazocine_and_naloxone

=== Drug Interactions ===
Interactions Drug Interactions Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see WARNINGS ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome. [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may cause CNS excitation and hypertension through their respective effects on catecholamines. Caution should therefore be observed in administering Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets to patients who are currently receiving MAOIs or who have received them within the preceding 14 days. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine, may reduce the analgesic effect of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants The Concomitant use of opioids and muscle relaxants may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Tobacco Smoking tobacco could enhance the metabolic clearance rate of pentazocine reducing the clinical effectiveness of a standard dose of pentazocine.
Drug Interactions Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see WARNINGS ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome. [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may cause CNS excitation and hypertension through their respective effects on catecholamines. Caution should therefore be observed in administering Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets to patients who are currently receiving MAOIs or who have received them within the preceding 14 days. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine, may reduce the analgesic effect of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants The Concomitant use of opioids and muscle relaxants may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Tobacco Smoking tobacco could enhance the metabolic clearance rate of pentazocine reducing the clinical effectiveness of a standard dose of pentazocine.
