Drug: perampanel

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Contraceptives: 12 mg once daily may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel ( 7.1 ) Moderate and Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (including carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, and phenytoin): increase clearance of perampanel and decrease perampanel plasma concentrations. When moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers are introduced or withdrawn, monitor patients closely. Dose adjustment of perampanel may be necessary ( 2.3, 7.2 ) 7.1 Contraceptives With concomitant use, perampanel at a dose of 12 mg per day reduced levonorgestrel exposure by approximately 40% [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Use of perampanel with contraceptives containing levonorgestrel may render them less effective. Additional non-hormonal forms of contraception are recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ]. 7.2 Moderate and Strong CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of known moderate and strong CYP3A4 inducers including carbamazepine, phenytoin, or oxcarbazepine with perampanel decreased the plasma levels of perampanel by approximately 50-67% [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The starting doses for perampanel should be increased in the presence of moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. When these moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers are introduced or withdrawn from a patient’s treatment regimen, the patient should be closely monitored for clinical response and tolerability. Dose adjustment of perampanel may be necessary [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. 7.3 Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of perampanel and CNS depressants including alcohol may increase CNS depression. A pharmacodynamic interaction study in healthy subjects found that the effects of perampanel on complex tasks such as driving ability were additive or supra-additive to the impairment effects of alcohol [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Multiple dosing of perampanel 12 mg per day also enhanced the effects of alcohol to interfere with vigilance and alertness, and increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression. These effects may also be seen when perampanel is used in combination with other CNS depressants. Care should be taken when administering perampanel with these agents. Patients should limit activity until they have experience with concomitant use of CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, narcotics, barbiturates, sedating antihistamines). Advise patients not to drive or operate machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on perampanel to gauge whether it adversely affects these activities.
