Drug: phenobarbital_sodium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2C9, 2C19, 2E1, UGT Inhibitors: Closely monitor and decrease SEZABY dosage, if needed. (7.1) CYP3A4, 2B6, 2C, UGT Substrates: Substrate dosage adjustment may be needed. (7.1) CNS depressants: Closely monitor for sedation and respiratory depression. (7.2) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval : Avoid concomitant use. (7.3) 7.1 Cytochrome P450- or Uridine 5’-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)-Based Interactions The drug interaction information in Table 3 is based upon published literature in non-neonatal populations, in vitro studies, and the mechanistic knowledge of phenobarbital metabolic pathways [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Although the data from the published literature regarding these drug interactions are from non-neonatal populations and the magnitude of the potential drug interactions in neonates have not been characterized, this information still warrants consideration given the potential impact of these possible drug interactions on the safety and efficacy of phenobarbital and CYP2B6, 2C9, 2C19, or UGT substrates in neonates. Table 3: Drug Interactions with SEZABY Effects of Other Drugs on SEZABY CYP2C9, 2C19, 2E1, Uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases ( UGT) Inhibitors or Inducers Prevention or Management Closely monitor for adverse reactions (e.g., over sedation, prolonged QTc interval, etc.) when used concomitantly with inhibitors of these enzymes and reduced efficacy (e.g., breakthrough seizure) when used with inducers of these enzymes. Consider titration of the SEZABY maintenance dosage accordingly if concomitant use is unavoidable. Clinical Effect(s) Phenobarbital is a substrate of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, and UGTs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . It is likely that concomitant use will result in an increase in phenobarbital exposure when used with these inhibitors and a reduction when used with these inducers, which may increase the risk of SEZABY adverse reactions or reduce efficacy, respectively when concomitant use in neonates. Effects of Other Drugs on Sezaby CYP3A, 2B6, 2C(s), UGTs Substrates Prevention or Management Closely monitor neonates when SEZABY is used concurrently with substrates of these enzymes and consider increasing the dosage of the substrate accordingly, unless otherwise advised in its Prescribing Information, if concomitant use is unavoidable. Clinical Effect(s) Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C(s), and UGT(s) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . It is likely that concomitant use in neonates will result in a decrease in the exposure of these substrates, which may reduce efficacy. 7.2 CNS Depressants Closely monitor for signs of sedation and respiratory depression with concomitant use of SEZABY with other CNS depressants, including opioids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Phenobarbital may cause sedation and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . Other products that may also cause these adverse reactions may have additive pharmacologic effect and may increase the risk of sedation and respiratory depression. 7.3 Drugs that Prolong QT Interval SEZABY may prolong the QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . Other products that may also prolong the QTc interval may have additive effects, and products that may increase concentrations of phenobarbital [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] may increase the QT prolongation risk; therefore, avoid concomitant use of SEZABY and these products. If concomitant use of a product that also prolongs the QTc interval or that increases SEZABY concentrations is unavoidable, monitor patients for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation.
