Drug: phentermine_and_topiramate_extended-release

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 displays clinically significant drug interactions with phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules. Table 5. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Phentermine and Topiramate Extended-Release Capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of phentermine with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) increases the risk of hypertensive crisis. Intervention Concomitant use of phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules are contraindicated during MAOI treatment and within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact Co-administration of multiple-dose phentermine and topiramate extended-release 15 mg/92 mg once daily with a single dose of oral contraceptive containing 35 mcg ethinyl estradiol (estrogen component) and 1 mg norethindrone (progestin component), in obese otherwise healthy volunteers, decreased the exposure of ethinyl estradiol by 16% and increased the exposure of norethindrone by 22% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Although this interaction is not anticipated to increase the risk of pregnancy, irregular bleeding (spotting) may occur more frequently due to both the increased exposure to the progestin and lower exposure to the estrogen, which tends to stabilize the endometrium. Intervention Inform patients not to discontinue their combination oral contraceptive if spotting occurs, but to notify their health care provider if the spotting is troubling to them. CNS Depressants Including Alcohol Clinical Impact The concomitant use of alcohol or CNS depressant drugs (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines, and sleep medications) with phentermine or topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Intervention Advise patients not to drive or operate machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules to gauge whether it adversely affects their mental performance, motor performance, and/or vision. Caution patients against excessive alcohol intake when taking phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules. Consider phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules dosage reduction or discontinuation if cognitive dysfunction persists. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Non-Potassium Sparing Diuretics Clinical Impact Concurrent use of phentermine and topiramate extended-release with non-potassium sparing diuretics may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of these diuretics. Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide alone with topiramate alone has been shown to increase the C max and AUC of topiramate by 27% and 29%, respectively. Intervention When phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules are used concomitantly with non-potassium-sparing diuretics, measure potassium before and during phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Antiepileptic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate in patients with epilepsy, decreased plasma concentrations of topiramate by 48% and 40%, respectively, when compared to topiramate given alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant administration of valproic acid and topiramate has been associated with hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy. Concomitant administration of topiramate with valproic acid in patients has also been associated with hypothermia (with and without hyperammonemia). Intervention Consider measuring blood ammonia in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia or encephalopathy has been reported [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of topiramate with any other carbonic anhydrase inhibitor may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis and may also increase the risk of kidney stone formation. Intervention Avoid the use of phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules with other drugs that inhibit carbonic anhydrase. If concomitant use of phentermine and topiramate extended-release capsules with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor is unavoidable, monitor patient for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 )] . Pioglitazone Clinical Impact A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with the concurrent use of pioglitazone and topiramate in a clinical trial. The clinical relevance of these observations is unknown. Intervention Consider increased glycemic monitoring when using pioglitazone and phentermine and topiramate extended-release concomitantly [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Amitriptyline Clinical Impact Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate. Intervention Any adjustments in amitriptyline dose when used with phentermine and topiramate extended-release should be made according to the patient's clinical response and not on the basis of amitriptyline levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . • Oral Contraceptives: Altered exposure of progestin and estrogen may cause irregular bleeding, but not increased risk of pregnancy. Advise patients not to discontinue oral contraceptives if spotting occurs ( 7 ). • CNS Depressants Including Alcohol : May potentiate CNS depressant effects. Avoid excessive use of alcohol ( 7 ). • Non-potassium Sparing Diuretics : May potentiate hypokalemia. Measure potassium before and during treatment ( 7 )..
