Drug: pitavastatin_magnesium

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of ZYPITAMAG with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 2.4 , 7 ). Table 2 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when administered concomitantly with ZYPITAMAG and instructions for preventing or managing drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2. Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with ZYPITAMAG Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Cyclosporine significantly increases pitavastatin exposure and increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis . Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine with ZYPITAMAG is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of gemfibrozil with statins, including pitavastatin. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with ZYPITAMAG. Erythromycin Clinical Impact: Erythromycin significantly increases pitavastatin exposure and increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis . Intervention: In patients taking erythromycin, do not exceed ZYPITAMAG 1 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Rifampin Clinical Impact: Rifampin significantly increases peak pitavastatin exposure and increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis . Intervention: In patients taking rifampin, do not exceed ZYPITAMAG 2 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Fibrates Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with statins, including pitavastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with ZYPITAMAG outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Niacin Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis may be increased with concomitant use of lipid-modifying doses (1 g/day) of niacin with pitavastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses (>1 g/day) of niacin concomitantly with ZYPITAMAG outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with statins, including pitavastatin. Intervention: Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of colchicine with ZYPITAMAG.
