Drug: pitolisant_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors: Maximum recommended dosage is 17.8 mg once daily ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Decreased exposure of WAKIX; consider dosage adjustment ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) Sensitive CYP3A4 Substrates (including hormonal contraceptives): WAKIX may reduce effectiveness of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates. Use an alternative non-hormonal contraceptive method during treatment with WAKIX and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of treatment ( 7.1 , 8.3 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with WAKIX Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with WAKIX Effect of Other Drugs on WAKIX Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors Clinical Implication: Concomitant administration of WAKIX with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increases pitolisant exposure by 2.2-fold. Prevention or Management: Reduce the dose of WAKIX by half [see see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Implication: Concomitant use of WAKIX with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreases exposure of pitolisant by 50%. Prevention or Management: Assess for loss of efficacy after initiation of a strong CYP3A4 inducer. For patients stable on WAKIX 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, increase the dose of WAKIX to reach double the original daily dose (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days. If concomitant dosing of a strong CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, decrease WAKIX dosage by half [see see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Histamine-1 (H1) Receptor Antagonists Clinical Implication: WAKIX increases the levels of histamine in the brain; therefore, H1 receptor antagonists that cross the blood-brain barrier may reduce the effectiveness of WAKIX. Prevention or Management: Avoid centrally acting H1 receptor antagonists. QT Interval Prolongation Clinical Implication: Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval may add to the QT effects of WAKIX and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Prevention or Management: Avoid the use of WAKIX in combination with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Effect of WAKIX on Other Drugs Sensitive CYP3A4 Substrates Clinical Implication: WAKIX is a borderline/weak inducer of CYP3A4. Therefore, reduced effectiveness of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates may occur when used concomitantly with WAKIX [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) may be reduced when used with WAKIX and effectiveness may be reduced for 21 days after discontinuation of therapy. Prevention or Management: Patients using hormonal contraception should be advised to use an alternative non-hormonal contraceptive method during treatment with WAKIX and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of treatment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )]. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with WAKIX A clinical study was conducted to evaluate the concomitant use of WAKIX with modafinil or sodium oxybate. This study demonstrated no clinically relevant effect of modafinil or sodium oxybate on the pharmacokinetics of WAKIX and no effect of WAKIX on the pharmacokinetics of modafinil or sodium oxybate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . A clinical study showed that strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, grapefruit juice) have no effect on the pharmacokinetics of WAKIX [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
