Drug: ponesimod

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Vaccines : Avoid live attenuated vaccines during and for up to 1–2 weeks after treatment with PONVORY. ( 7.4 ) Strong CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 Inducers : Coadministration with PONVORY is not recommended. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Anti-Neoplastic, Immune-Modulating, or Immunosuppressive Therapies PONVORY has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic, immune-modulating, or immunosuppressive therapies. Caution should be used during concomitant administration because of the risk of additive immune effects during such therapy and in the weeks following administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . When switching from drugs with prolonged immune effects, the half-life and mode of action of these drugs must be considered in order to avoid unintended additive effects on the immune system [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Because of the characteristics and duration of alemtuzumab immune suppressive effects, initiating treatment with PONVORY after alemtuzumab is not recommended. PONVORY can generally be started immediately after discontinuation of beta interferon or glatiramer acetate. 7.2 Anti-Arrhythmic Drugs, QT Prolonging Drugs, Drugs that may Decrease Heart Rate PONVORY has not been studied in patients taking QT prolonging drugs. Class Ia (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) and Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) anti-arrhythmic drugs have been associated with cases of Torsades de Pointes in patients with bradycardia. If treatment with PONVORY is considered, advice from a cardiologist should be sought. Because of the potential additive effects on heart rate, treatment with PONVORY should generally not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with QT prolonging drugs with known arrhythmogenic properties, heart rate lowering calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem), or other drugs that may decrease heart rate (e.g., digoxin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ] . If treatment with PONVORY is considered, advice from a cardiologist should be sought. 7.3 Beta-Blockers Caution should be applied when PONVORY is initiated in patients receiving treatment with a beta-blocker because of the additive effects on lowering heart rate; temporary interruption of the beta-blocker treatment may be needed prior to initiation of PONVORY [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of PONVORY. 7.4 Vaccination During, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of, treatment with PONVORY, vaccinations may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during PONVORY treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of treatment with PONVORY [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.5 Strong CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 Inducers In vitro assessments and limited clinical data indicated that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine) may decrease the systemic exposure of ponesimod. It is unclear whether this decrease in ponesimod systemic exposure would be considered of clinical relevance. Coadministration of PONVORY with strong CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 inducers is not recommended.
