Drug: potassium_chloride_and_sodium_chloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP and result in decreased lithium concentrations. Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use. Other Products that Cause Hyperkalemia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in patients treated concurrently or recently with products that are associated with hyperkalemia increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, in particular in the presence of other risk factors for hyperkalemia. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in patients receiving such products (e.g., potassium sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or the immunosuppressants cyclosporine and tacrolimus). If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum potassium concentrations. Other Products that Affect Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance Administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with sodium and fluid retention may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in patients receiving such products, such as corticosteroids or corticotropin. If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum electrolytes, fluid balance, and acid-base balance. Other Drugs that Increase the Risk of Hyponatremia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in patients receiving products, such as diuretics, and certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications. Drugs that increase the vasopressin effect reduce renal electrolyte free water excretion and may also increase the risk of hyponatremia following treatment with intravenous fluids. If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum sodium concentrations.
