Drug: potassium_chloride,_dextrose_monohydrate_and_sodium_chloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Other Products that Cause Hyperkalemia : Avoid use in patients receiving such products. If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum potassium concentrations. ( 7.1 ) • Lithium : Decreased lithium concentrations with concomitant use; monitor serum lithium concentrations. ( 7.2 ) • Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control, Vasopressin or Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance : Monitor blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance serum electrolyte concentrations and acid-base balance. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Other Products that Cause Hyperkalemia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection in patients treated concurrently or recently with other products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia (e.g., potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers) increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, in particular in the presence of other risk factors for hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection in patients receiving such products. If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum potassium concentrations. 7.2 Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during administration of Potassium Chloride in Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection resulting in decreased serum lithium concentrations. Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use. 7.3 Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control, Vasopressin or Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance Potassium Chloride in Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection can affect glycemic control, vasopressin and fluid and/or electrolyte balance [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.6 )]. Monitor blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations and acid-base balance when using Potassium Chloride in Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection in patients treated with other substances that affect glycemic control, vasopressin or fluid and/or electrolyte balance.
