Drug: prasugrel

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Opioids: Decreased exposure to prasugrel. Consider use of parenteral antiplatelet agent ( 7.3 ). 7.1 Warfarin Coadministration of prasugrel tablets and warfarin increases the risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Coadministration of prasugrel tablets and NSAIDs (used chronically) may increase the risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of prasugrel’s active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider the use of a parenteral anti-platelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring coadministration of morphine or other opioid agonists. 7.4 Other Concomitant Medications Prasugrel tablets can be administered with drugs that are inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prasugrel tablets can be administered with aspirin (75 mg to 325 mg per day), heparin, GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors, statins, digoxin, and drugs that elevate gastric pH, including proton pump inhibitors and H 2 blockers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Prasugrel Inhibitors of CYP3A Ketoconazole (400 mg daily), a selective and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, did not affect prasugrel-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation or the active metabolite’s AUC and T max , but decreased the C max by 34% to 46%. Therefore, CYP3A inhibitors such as verapamil, diltiazem, indinavir, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, and grapefruit juice are not expected to have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite of prasugrel [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Inducers of Cytochromes P450 Rifampicin (600 mg daily), a potent inducer of CYP3A and CYP2B6 and an inducer of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2C8, did not significantly change the pharmacokinetics of prasugrel’s active metabolite or its inhibition of platelet aggregation. Therefore, known CYP3A inducers such as rifampicin, carbamazepine, and other inducers of cytochromes P450 are not expected to have significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite of prasugrel [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Drugs that Elevate Gastric pH Daily coadministration of ranitidine (an H 2 blocker) or lansoprazole (a proton pump inhibitor) decreased the C max of the prasugrel active metabolite by 14% and 29%, respectively, but did not change the active metabolite’s AUC and T max . In TRITON-TIMI 38, prasugrel tablets were administered without regard to coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor or H 2 blocker [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Statins Atorvastatin (80 mg daily), a drug metabolized by CYP450 3A4, did not alter the pharmacokinetics of prasugrel’s active metabolite or its inhibition of platelet aggregation [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Heparin A single intravenous dose of unfractionated heparin (100 units/kg) did not significantly alter coagulation or the prasugrel-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation; however, bleeding time was increased compared with either drug alone [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Aspirin Aspirin 150 mg daily did not alter prasugrel-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation; however, bleeding time was increased compared with either drug alone [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Warfarin A significant prolongation of the bleeding time was observed when prasugrel was coadministered with 15 mg of warfarin [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Potential for Prasugrel to Affect Other Drugs In vitro metabolism studies demonstrate that prasugrel’s main circulating metabolites are not likely to cause clinically significant inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A, or induction of CYP1A2 or CYP3A. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2B6 Prasugrel is a weak inhibitor of CYP2B6. In healthy subjects, prasugrel decreased exposure to hydroxybupropion, a CYP2B6-mediated metabolite of bupropion, by 23%, an amount not considered clinically significant. Prasugrel is not anticipated to have significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP2B6, such as halothane, cyclophosphamide, propofol, and nevirapine. Effect on Digoxin The potential role of prasugrel as a Pgp substrate was not evaluated. Prasugrel is not an inhibitor of Pgp, as digoxin clearance was not affected by prasugrel coadministration [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Morphine Coadministration of 5 mg intravenous morphine with 60 mg loading dose of prasugrel in healthy adults decreased the C max of prasugrel’s active metabolite by 31% with no change in AUC, T max , or inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation. ADP-induced platelet aggregation was higher up to 2 hours following 60 mg loading dose of prasugrel in stable patients more than 1 year after an ACS who were coadministered morphine. In the patients with a 2-hour delay in the onset of platelet aggregation (5 of 11), T max was delayed and prasugrel active metabolite levels were significantly lower at 30 min (5 vs 120 ng/mL) following coadministration with morphine.
