Drug: prenatal_multivitamin_tablet_and_combination_omega-3_softgel_mineral_capsule

=== Drug Interactions ===
DRUG INTERACTIONS Talk to your licensed medical practitioner, healthcare practitioner, personal physician, and/or pharmacist before taking or using any prescription, over-the-counter medicines, or herbal/health supplements alongside this product. Drugs which may interact with folate include: • Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. • Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. • Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. • Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. • Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. • Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. • L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. • Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. • NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. • Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. • Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. • Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced serum folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. • Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. • Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. • Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. • Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. • Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim- sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo-controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B 12 (Methylcobalamin): • Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B 12 . • Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B 12 deficiency *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
