Drug: primaquine_phosphate

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Pharmacodynamics Interactions Quinacrine Concurrent use of quinacrine (mepacrine) and Primaquine phosphate Tablets are contraindicated. Increased toxicity was seen when quinacrine was used with pamaquine, another 8-aminoquinoline (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Hemolytic Agents and Methemoglobinemia-Inducing Drugs The concurrent administration of hemolytic agents or methemoglobinemia-inducing drugs and primaquine should be avoided (see PRECAUTIONS ). If the concurrent administration cannot be avoided, close blood monitoring is required. QT Interval Prolonging Drugs The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between Primaquine phosphate Tablets and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. If Primaquine phosphate Tablets are used concomitantly with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, close and frequent electrocardiogram monitoring is advised (see PRECAUTIONS , ADVERSE REACTIONS , and OVERDOSAGE ). Effects of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Primaquine Potent CYP2D6 Inhibitors Published clinical and non-clinical reports indicate reduced CYP2D6 activity may decrease the formation of active metabolites of primaquine, which may reduce antimalarial efficacy of Primaquine phosphate Tablets. Where possible, consider alternative medications that are not potent CYP2D6 inhibitors. If concurrent use with Primaquine phosphate Tablets is necessary, increase monitoring for possible relapse. Effects of Primaquine on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs CYP1A2 Substrates Published clinical and non-clinical reports indicate primaquine inhibits CYP1A2 enzyme activity and thus may lead to increased exposure of CYP1A2 substrate drugs (e.g., duloxetine, alosetron, theophylline and tizanidine) when co-administered with Primaquine phosphate Tablets. Since data are limited, no predictions can be made regarding the extent of the impact on CYP1A2 substrate drug exposures. Increase monitoring for adverse reactions associated with the CYP1A2 substrate drug when concurrently administered with Primaquine phosphate tablets. P-gp Substrates with Narrow Therapeutic Index In vitro observations suggest that primaquine inhibits the P-gp membrane transporter. Therefore, there is a potential for increased concentrations of drugs that are P-gp substrates when co-administered with Primaquine phosphate Tablets. Increase monitoring for adverse reactions associated with narrow therapeutic index drugs that are P-gp substrates (e.g., digoxin and dabigatran) when concomitantly administered with Primaquine phosphate Tablets.
