Drug: propofol

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Opioids, Sedatives or Other Analgesic Agents : May increase the anesthetic/sedative and cardiorespiratory effects ( 7 ) Valproate : May lead to increased blood levels of propofol ( 7 ) Opioids and Sedatives The induction dose requirements of propofol injectable emulsion may be reduced in patients with intramuscular or intravenous premedication, particularly with opioids (e.g., morphine, meperidine, and fentanyl, etc.) and combinations of opioids and sedatives (e.g., benzodiazepines, barbiturates, chloral hydrate, droperidol, etc.). These agents may increase the anesthetic or sedative effects of propofol injectable emulsion and may also result in more pronounced decreases in systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures and cardiac output. In pediatric patients, administration of fentanyl concomitantly with propofol injectable emulsion may result in serious bradycardia. Analgesic Agents During maintenance of anesthesia or sedation, the rate of propofol injectable emulsion administration should be adjusted according to the desired level of anesthesia or sedation and may be reduced in the presence of supplemental analgesic agents (e.g., nitrous oxide or opioids). The concurrent administration of potent inhalational agents (e.g., isoflurane, sevoflurane, desflurane, enflurane, and halothane) during maintenance with propofol injectable emulsion are routinely used. These inhalational agents can also be expected to increase the anesthetic or sedative and cardiorespiratory effects of propofol injectable emulsion. Valproate The concomitant use of valproate and propofol may lead to increased blood levels of propofol. Reduce the dose of propofol when co-administering with valproate. Monitor patients closely for signs of increased sedation or cardiorespiratory depression. Common Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Propofol injectable emulsion does not cause a clinically significant change in onset, intensity or duration of action of the commonly used neuromuscular blocking agents (e.g., succinylcholine and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants). Common Drugs Used as Premedication or Drugs Used During Anesthesia or Sedation No significant adverse interactions with commonly used premedications or drugs used during anesthesia or sedation (including a range of muscle relaxants, inhalational agents, analgesic agents, and local anesthetic agents) have been observed in adults.
