Drug: quinine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 below presents clinically significant drug interactions with quinine sulfate. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Quinine Sulfate Drug(s) Clinical Impact Recommendation Effects of Drugs and Other Substances on Quinine Pharmacokinetics Antacids Antacids containing aluminum and/or magnesium may delay or decrease absorption of quinine. Concomitant administration of these antacids with quinine sulfate should be avoided. Antiepileptics (AEDs) (carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin are CYP3A4 inducers and may decrease quinine plasma concentrations if used concurrently with quinine sulfate. If concomitant administration with carbamazepine or phenobarbital cannot be avoided, frequent monitoring of anticonvulsant drug concentrations is recommended. Additionally, patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions associated with these anticonvulsants. Histamine H 2 -receptor blockers [cimetidine, ranitidine (nonspecific CYP450 inhibitors)] When quinine is to be given concomitantly with a histamine H 2 -receptor blocker, the use of ranitidine is preferred over cimetidine. Although cimetidine and ranitidine may be used concomitantly with quinine sulfate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients should be monitored closely for adverse events associated with quinine. Ketoconazole (CYP3A4 inhibitor) No change in the quinine sulfate dosage regimen is necessary with concomitant ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions associated with quinine. Macrolide antibiotics (erythromycin, troleandomycin) (CYP3A4 inhibitors) Increased quinine plasma levels have been observed when used concomitantly [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant administration of macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin or troleandomycin with quinine sulfate should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Rifampin (CYP3A4 inducer) Decreased quinine plasma levels have been observed when used concomitantly [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant administration of rifampin with quinine sulfate should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Ritonavir Increased quinine plasma levels have been observed when used concomitantly [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant administration of ritonavir with quinine sulfate should be avoided. Tetracycline Tetracycline may be concomitantly administered with quinine sulfate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions associated with quinine sulfate. Theophylline or aminophylline No change in the quinine sulfate dosage regimen is necessary with concomitant theophylline or aminophylline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions associated with quinine. Urinary alkalizers (acetazolamide, sodium bicarbonate) Urinary alkalinizing agents may increase plasma quinine concentrations. Use caution if using concomitantly. Effects of Quinine on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs Anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin are CYP3A4 inducers and may decrease quinine plasma concentrations if used concurrently with quinine sulfate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If concomitant administration with carbamazepine or phenobarbital cannot be avoided, frequent monitoring of anticonvulsant drug concentrations is recommended. Patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions associated with these anticonvulsants. Astemizole (CYP3A4 substrate) Elevated plasma astemizole concentrations were reported in a subject who experienced torsades de pointes after receiving three doses of quinine sulfate for nocturnal leg cramps concomitantly with chronic astemizole 10 mg/day. The concurrent use of quinine sulfate with astemizole and other CYP3A4 substrates with QT prolongation potential (e.g., cisapride, terfenadine, halofantrine, pimozide and quinidine) should also be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Atorvastatin (CYP3A4 substrate) Rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria was reported in a patient taking atorvastatin administered with a single dose of quinine. Quinine may increase plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, thereby increasing the risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis. Thus, clinicians considering combined therapy of quinine sulfate with atorvastatin or other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (“statins”) that are CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., simvastatin, lovastatin) should carefully weigh the potential benefits and risks of each medication. If quinine sulfate is used concomitantly with any of these statins, lower starting and maintenance doses of the statin should be considered. Patients should also be monitored closely for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly during initial therapy. If marked creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevation occurs or myopathy (defined as muscle aches or muscle weakness in conjunction with CPK values > 10 times the upper limit of normal) is diagnosed or suspected, atorvastatin or other statin should be discontinued. Desipramine (CYP2D6 substrate) Quinine may inhibit the metabolism of drugs that are CYP2D6 substrates if used at antimalarial doses (greater than or equal to 600 mg) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients taking medications that are CYP2D6 substrates with quinine sulfate should be monitored closely for adverse reactions associated with these medications. Digoxin (P-gp substrate) Digoxin levels may be increased with use of quinine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If quinine sulfate is administered to patients receiving digoxin, plasma digoxin concentrations should be closely monitored, and the digoxin dose adjusted, as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Mefloquine The concomitant administration of mefloquine and quinine sulfate may produce electrocardiographic abnormalities (including QTc prolongation) and may increase the risk of seizures [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Neuromuscular blocking agents (pancuronium, succinylcholine, tubocurarine) Quinine may also enhance the neuromuscular blocking effects of succinylcholine and tubocurarine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Ritonavir Ritonavir has significant effect on quinine pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The concomitant administration of quinine sulfate with ritonavir should be avoided. Theophylline or aminophylline (CYP1A2 substrate) Increased quinine plasma levels when used concomitantly [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If quinine sulfate is co-administered to patients receiving theophylline or aminophylline, plasma theophylline concentrations should be monitored frequently to ensure therapeutic concentrations. Warfarin and oral anticoagulants Cinchona alkaloids, including quinine, may have the potential to depress hepatic enzyme synthesis of vitamin K-dependent coagulation pathway proteins and may enhance the action of warfarin and other oral anticoagulants. Quinine may also interfere with the anticoagulant effect of heparin. In patients receiving these anticoagulants, the prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), or international normalization ratio (INR) should be closely monitored as appropriate, during concurrent therapy with quinine sulfate. Drug/Laboratory Interactions Quinine may produce an elevated value for urinary 17-ketogenic steroids when the Zimmerman method is used. Quinine may interfere with urine qualitative dipstick protein assays as well as quantitative methods (e.g., pyrogallol red-molybdate). Special attention to patients using quinine is needed to minimize errors in the interpretation of laboratory results. Interacting Drug Interaction Drugs known to prolong QT interval (e.g., Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic agents) Quinine sulfate prolongs QT interval, ECG abnormalities including QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes. Avoid concomitant use. (5.4) Other antimalarials (e.g., halofantrine, mefloquine) ECG abnormalities including QT prolongation. Avoid concomitant use. (5.4 , 7) CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors Alteration in plasma quinine concentration. Monitor for lack of efficacy or increased adverse reactions of quinine. (7) CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrates Quinine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Monitor for lack of efficacy or increased adverse reactions of the co-administered drug. (7) Digoxin Increased digoxin plasma concentration. (5.8 , 7) See full prescribing information for a complete list of reported and potential interactions.
