Drug: ramelteon

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Rifampin (strong CYP enzyme inducer): Decreases exposure to and effects of ramelteon. ( 7.1 ) Ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor): Increases AUC for ramelteon; administer with caution. ( 7.1 ) Fluconazole (strong CYP2C9 inhibitor): Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; administer with caution. ( 7.1 ) Donepezil: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is co administered with donepezil. ( 7.1 ) Doxepin: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is co administered with doxepin. ( 7.1 ) Alcohol: Causes additive psychomotor impairment; should not be used in combination. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ramelteon Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor) AUC 0-inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold, and the C max increased approximately 70-fold upon coadministration of fluvoxamine and ramelteon, compared to ramelteon administered alone. Ramelteon should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Other less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors have not been adequately studied. Ramelteon should be administered with caution to patients taking less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors. Rifampin (strong CYP enzyme inducer) Administration of multiple doses of rifampin resulted in a mean decrease of approximately 80% in total exposure to ramelteon and metabolite M-II. Efficacy may be reduced when ramelteon is used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 84% and 36% upon coadministration of ketoconazole with ramelteon. Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Fluconazole (strong CYP2C9 inhibitor) The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon was increased by approximately 150% when ramelteon was coadministered with fluconazole. Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Donepezil The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 100% and 87%, respectively upon coadministration of donepezil with ramelteon. Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Doxepin The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 66% and 69%, respectively, upon coadministration of doxepin with ramelteon. Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . 7.2 Effect of Alcohol on Ramelteon Alcohol by itself impairs performance and can cause sleepiness. Since the intended effect of ramelteon is to promote sleep, patients should be cautioned not to consume alcohol when using ramelteon [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Use of the products in combination may have an additive effect. 7.3 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Ramelteon is not known to interfere with commonly used clinical laboratory tests. In addition, in vitro data indicate that ramelteon does not cause false-positive results for benzodiazepines, opiates, barbiturates, cocaine, cannabinoids, or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screening methods in vitro .
