Drug: remibrutinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use with RHAPSIDO. ( 7.1 ) Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use with RHAPSIDO. ( 7.1 ) P-gp Substrates: Exposure increases where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions: Monitor more frequently for adverse reactions when used concomitantly with RHAPSIDO. ( 7.2 ) Antithrombotic Agents: Consider the risks and benefits of concomitant use of antithrombotic agents with RHAPSIDO. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on RHAPSIDO Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Avoid use of RHAPSIDO with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with a strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increases remibrutinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may increase the risk of RHAPSIDO adverse reactions. Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid use of RHAPSIDO with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with a strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreases remibrutinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may decrease the efficacy of RHAPSIDO. 7.2 Effect of RHAPSIDO on Other Drugs P-gp Substrates Monitor more frequently for adverse reactions when using RHAPSIDO with P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions (e.g., digoxin). Remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Remibrutinib increases exposure of P-gp substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Antithrombotic Agents Consider the risks and benefits of concomitant administration of antithrombotic agents with RHAPSIDO [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . No data are available on concomitant use of RHAPSIDO with anticoagulants. The concomitant use of RHAPSIDO and anticoagulants was not allowed in clinical studies. Use of the antiplatelet agents, acetyl salicylic acid at doses up to 100 mg daily or clopidogrel up to 75 mg daily, was allowed in the RHAPSIDO clinical studies.
