Drug: remifentanil_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 18 includes clinically significant drug interactions with ULTIVA. Table 18: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with ULTIVA Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, increases the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid alcohol for 24 hours after surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue ULTIVA if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. If urgent use of ULTIVA is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Intervention: The use of ULTIVA is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of ULTIVA and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Consider discontinuing ULTIVA if patient is not responding appropriately to treatment and institute alternative analgesic treatment. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : May reduce the analgesic effect of ULTIVA and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. ( 7 )
Drug Interactions In animals the duration of muscle paralysis from succinylcholine is not prolonged by remifentanil.
