Drug: repotrectinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • P-gp inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • Certain CYP3A Substrates : Avoid concomitant use with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration changes can cause reduced efficacy. ( 7.2 ) • Hormonal contraceptives : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on AUGTYRO Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of AUGTYRO with a strong or a moderate CYP3A inhibitor may increase repotrectinib exposure, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of AUGTYRO. Discontinue CYP3A inhibitors for 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of the CYP3A inhibitor prior to initiating AUGTYRO [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . P-gp Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use with P-gp inhibitors. Concomitant use of AUGTYRO with a P-gp inhibitor may increase repotrectinib exposure, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of AUGTYRO [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Avoid concomitant use with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of AUGTYRO with a strong or moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease repotrectinib plasma concentrations, which may decrease efficacy of AUGTYRO [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Effects of AUGTYRO on Other Drugs Certain CYP3A4 Substrates Avoid concomitant use unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration changes can cause reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the CYP3A4 substrate dosage in accordance with approved product labeling. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use of repotrectinib decreases the concentration of CYP3A4 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which can reduce the efficacy of these substrates. Contraceptives Repotrectinib is a CYP3A4 inducer, which can decrease progestin or estrogen exposure to an extent that could reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Avoid concomitant use of AUGTYRO with hormonal contraceptives [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . Advise females of reproductive potential to use an effective nonhormonal contraceptive [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] .
