Drug: resmetirom

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong or Moderate CYP2C8 Inhibitors: Concomitant use not recommended (strong inhibitor [e.g., gemfibrozil]); or reduce REZDIFFRA dosage (moderate inhibitor [e.g., clopidogrel]). (2.2 , 7.1) Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Rosuvastatin and Simvastatin : Limit the daily dosage of the statin as recommended. (5.3 , 7.2) CYP2C8 Substrates: Monitor patients more frequently for substrate- related adverse reactions. (7.2) 7.1 Effects of Strong or Moderate CYP2C8 Inhibitors on REZDIFFRA Table 3 includes clinically significant drug interaction effects of strong or moderate CYP2C8 inhibitors on REZDIFFRA. Table 3: Clinically Significant Interaction Effects of Strong or Moderate CYP2C8 Inhibitors on REZDIFFRA Clinical Impact Resmetirom is a CYP2C8 substrate. Concomitant use with a strong or moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor can increase resmetirom Cmax and AUC [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which may increase the risk of REZDIFFRA adverse reactions. Intervention Concomitant use of REZDIFFRA with strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) is not recommended. Reduce REZDIFFRA dosage if used concomitantly with a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor (e.g., clopidogrel) [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 7.2 Effects of REZDIFFRA on Other Drugs Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions affecting other drugs. Table 4: Clinically Significant Interactions Affecting Other Drugs Statins (Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Rosuvastatin, or Simvastatin) Clinical Impact REZDIFFRA increased plasma concentrations of some statins (atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin and simvastatin) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these drugs. Intervention Rosuvastatin and simvastatin: Limit daily statin dosage to 20 mg. Pravastatin and atorvastatin: Limit daily statin dosage to 40 mg. CYP2C8 Substrates Clinical Impact Resmetirom is a weak CYP2C8 inhibitor. Resmetirom increases exposure of CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Intervention Monitor patients more frequently for substrate-related adverse reactions if REZDIFFRA is co-administered with CYP2C8 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions.
