Drug: rilpivirine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Rilpivirine is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP)3A, and drugs that induce or inhibit CYP3A may thus affect the clearance of rilpivirine. Coadministration of rilpivirine tablets and drugs that induce CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine and loss of virologic response and possible resistance to rilpivirine or to the class of NNRTIs. Coadministration of rilpivirine tablets and drugs that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine. Coadministration of rilpivirine tablets with drugs that increase gastric pH may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine and loss of virologic response and possible resistance to rilpivirine or to the class of NNRTIs. Rilpivirine tablets at the recommended doses are not likely to have a clinically relevant effect on the exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP enzymes. Table 6 shows the established and other potentially significant drug interactions based on which alterations in dose or regimen of rilpivirine tablets and/or coadministered drug may be recommended. Drugs that are not recommended for coadministration with rilpivirine tablets are also included in Table 6. [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 6: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alterations in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] ↑=increase, ↓=decrease, ↔=no change * The interaction between rilpivirine tablets and the drug was evaluated in a clinical study. All other drug-drug interactions shown are predicted. † This interaction study has been performed with a dose higher than the recommended dose for rilpivirine tablets assessing the maximal effect on the coadministered drug. The dosing recommendation is applicable to the recommended doses of rilpivirine once daily. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Rilpivirine or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Antacids: antacids (e.g., aluminum or magnesium hydroxide, calcium carbonate) ↔ rilpivirine (antacids taken at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after rilpivirine) ↓ rilpivirine (concomitant intake) The combination of rilpivirine tablets and antacids should be used with caution as coadministration may cause significant decreases in rilpivirine plasma concentrations (increase in gastric pH). Antacids should only be administered either at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after rilpivirine tablets. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin ↓ rilpivirine Coadministration is contraindicated with rilpivirine tablets [see Contraindications (4) ] Antimycobacterials: rifampin rifapentine ↓ rilpivirine Coadministration is contraindicated with rilpivirine tablets [see Contraindications (4) ] Antimycobacterials: rifabutin * ↓ rilpivirine Concomitant use of rilpivirine tablets with rifabutin may cause a decrease in the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine (induction of CYP3A enzymes). Throughout coadministration of rilpivirine tablets with rifabutin, the rilpivirine tablets dose should be increased from 25 mg once daily to 50 mg once daily. When rifabutin coadministration is stopped, the rilpivirine tablets dose should be decreased to 25 mg once daily. Azole Antifungal Agents: fluconazole itraconazole ketoconazole *† posaconazole voriconazole ↑ rilpivirine ↓ ketoconazole Concomitant use of rilpivirine tablets with azole antifungal agents may cause an increase in the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine (inhibition of CYP3A enzymes). No rilpivirine dose adjustment is required when rilpivirine tablets are coadministered with azole antifungal agents. Clinically monitor for breakthrough fungal infections when azole antifungals are coadministered with rilpivirine tablets. Glucocorticoid (systemic): dexamethasone (more than a single-dose treatment) ↓ rilpivirine Coadministration is contraindicated with rilpivirine tablets [see Contraindications (4) ] H 2 -Receptor Antagonists: cimetidine famotidine *† nizatidine ranitidine ↔ rilpivirine (famotidine taken 12 hours before rilpivirine or 4 hours after rilpivirine) ↓ rilpivirine (famotidine taken 2 hours before rilpivirine) The combination of rilpivirine tablets and H 2 -receptor antagonists should be used with caution as coadministration may cause significant decreases in rilpivirine plasma concentrations (increase in gastric pH). H 2 -receptor antagonists should only be administered at least 12 hours before or at least 4 hours after rilpivirine tablets. Herbal Products: St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) ↓ rilpivirine Coadministration is contraindicated with rilpivirine tablets [see Contraindications (4) ] HIV-Antiviral Agents: Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) NNRTI (delavirdine) Other NNRTIs (efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine) ↑ rilpivirine ↔ delavirdine ↓ rilpivirine ↔ other NNRTIs It is not recommended to coadminister rilpivirine tablets with delavirdine and other NNRTIs. HIV-Antiviral Agents: Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs) didanosine *† ↔ rilpivirine ↔ didanosine No dose adjustment is required when rilpivirine tablets are coadministered with didanosine. Didanosine is to be administered on an empty stomach and at least two hours before or at least four hours after rilpivirine tablets (which should be administered with a meal). HIV-Antiviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors (PIs)-Boosted (i.e., with coadministration of low-dose ritonavir) or Unboosted (i.e., without coadministration of low-dose ritonavir) darunavir/ritonavir *† ↑ rilpivirine ↔ boosted darunavir Concomitant use of rilpivirine tablets with darunavir/ritonavir may cause an increase in the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine (inhibition of CYP3A enzymes). No dose adjustment is required when rilpivirine tablets are coadministered with darunavir/ritonavir. Lopinavir/ritonavir *† ↑ rilpivirine ↔ boosted lopinavir Concomitant use of rilpivirine tablets with lopinavir/ritonavir may cause an increase in the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine (inhibition of CYP3A enzymes). No dose adjustment is required when rilpivirine tablets are coadministered with lopinavir/ritonavir. Other boosted PIs (atazanavir/ritonavir, fosamprenavir/ritonavir, saquinavir/ritonavir, tipranavir/ritonavir) ↑ rilpivirine ↔ boosted PI Concomitant use of rilpivirine tablets with boosted PIs may cause an increase in the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine (inhibition of CYP3A enzymes). Rilpivirine tablets are not expected to affect the plasma concentrations of coadministered PIs. Unboosted PIs (atazanavir, fosamprenavir, indinavir, nelfinavir) ↑ rilpivirine ↔ unboosted PI Concomitant use of rilpivirine tablets with unboosted PIs may cause an increase in the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine (inhibition of CYP3A enzymes). Rilpivirine tablets are not expected to affect the plasma concentrations of coadministered PIs. Macrolide or ketolide antibiotics: azithromycin clarithromycin erythromycin ↑ rilpivirine ↔ azithromycin ↔ clarithromycin ↔ erythromycin Macrolides are expected to increase concentrations of rilpivirine and are associated with a risk of Torsade de Pointes [Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Where possible, consider alternatives, such as azithromycin, which increases rilpivirine concentrations less than other macrolides Narcotic Analgesics: methadone * ↓ R(-) methadone ↓ S(+) methadone No dose adjustments are required when initiating coadministration of methadone with rilpivirine tablets. However, clinical monitoring is recommended as methadone maintenance therapy may need to be adjusted in some patients. Proton Pump Inhibitors: e.g., esomeprazole lansoprazole omeprazole pantoprazole rabeprazole ↓ rilpivirine Coadministration is contraindicated with rilpivirine tablets [see Contraindications (4) ] In addition to the drugs included in Table 6, the interaction between rilpivirine tablets and the following drugs was evaluated in clinical studies and no dose adjustment is needed for either drug [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] : acetaminophen, atorvastatin, chlorzoxazone, cabotegravir, ethinylestradiol, norethindrone, raltegravir, sildenafil, simeprevir and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Rilpivirine did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin or metformin. No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction is expected when rilpivirine tablets are coadministered with maraviroc, ribavirin or the NRTIs abacavir, emtricitabine, lamivudine, stavudine and zidovudine. QT Prolonging Drugs There is limited information available on the potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction between rilpivirine and drugs that prolong the QTc interval of the electrocardiogram. In a study of healthy subjects, 75 mg once daily and 300 mg once daily (3 times and 12 times the dose in rilpivirine tablets) have been shown to prolong the QTc interval of the electrocardiogram [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Consider alternatives to rilpivirine tablets when coadministered with a drug with a known risk of torsade de pointes. Consider alternatives to rilpivirine tablets when coadministered with drugs with a known risk of torsade de pointes. ( 5 . 4 ) Rilpivirine tablets should not be used in combination with NNRTIs. ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of rilpivirine tablets with drugs that induce or inhibit CYP3A may affect the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine. ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of rilpivirine tablets with drugs that increase gastric pH may decrease plasma concentrations of rilpivirine. ( 4 , 7 ) Refer to the Full Prescribing Information for other drugs that should not be coadministered with rilpivirine tablets and for other drugs that may require a change in dose or regimen. ( 7 )
