Drug: ritlecitinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Certain CYP3A substrates: Additional monitoring and dose adjustment of CYP3A substrate should be considered. ( 7.1 ) • Certain CYP1A2 substrates: Additional monitoring and dose adjustment of CYP1A2 substrate should be considered. ( 7.1 ) • Certain CYP3A inducers: Coadministration with strong inducers of CYP3A is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of LITFULO on Other Drugs Table 3 includes clinically significant drug interactions affecting other drugs. Table 3. Clinically Significant Interactions Affecting Other Drugs CYP3A Substrates Where Small Concentration Changes May Lead to Serious Adverse Reactions Clinical Impact Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of ritlecitinib increases AUC and C max of CYP3A substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates. Intervention Consider additional monitoring and dosage adjustment in accordance with approved product labeling of CYP3A substrates where small concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions when used with LITFULO. CYP1A2 Substrates Where Small Concentration Changes May Lead to Serious Adverse Reactions Clinical Impact Ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use of ritlecitinib increases AUC and C max of CYP1A2 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates. Intervention Consider additional monitoring and dosage adjustment in accordance with the approved product labeling of CYP1A2 substrates where small concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions when used concomitantly with LITFULO. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on LITFULO Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions affecting LITFULO. Table 4. Clinically Significant Interactions Affecting LITFULO CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact Concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducer (e.g., rifampin) may decrease AUC and C max of ritlecitinib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may result in loss of or reduced clinical response. Intervention Coadministration with strong inducers of CYP3A is not recommended.
