Drug: rivaroxaban

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitors and inducers ( 7.2 , 7.3 ) Anticoagulants: Avoid concomitant use ( 7.4 ) 7.1 General Inhibition and Induction Properties Rivaroxaban is a substrate of CYP3A4/5, CYP2J2, and the P-gp and ATP-binding cassette G2 (ABCG2) transporters. Combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitors increase exposure to rivaroxaban and may increase the risk of bleeding. Combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducers decrease exposure to rivaroxaban and may increase the risk of thromboembolic events. 7.2 Drugs that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 3A Enzymes and Drug Transport Systems Interaction with Combined P-gp and Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Avoid concomitant administration of rivaroxaban with known combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole and ritonavir) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Although clarithromycin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor, pharmacokinetic data suggests that no precautions are necessary with concomitant administration with rivaroxaban as the change in exposure is unlikely to affect the bleeding risk [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Interaction with Combined P-gp and Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors in Patients with Renal Impairment Rivaroxaban should not be used in patients with CrCl 15 to <80 mL/min who are receiving concomitant combined P-gp and moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., erythromycin) unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Drugs that Induce Cytochrome P450 3A Enzymes and Drug Transport Systems Avoid concomitant use of rivaroxaban with drugs that are combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin, St. John's wort) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Anticoagulants and NSAIDs/Aspirin Coadministration of enoxaparin, warfarin, aspirin, clopidogrel and chronic NSAID use may increase the risk of bleeding [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Avoid concurrent use of rivaroxaban with other anticoagulants due to increased bleeding risk unless benefit outweighs risk. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with aspirin, other platelet aggregation inhibitors, or NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] .
