Drug: ropeginterferon_alfa-2b

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Certain proinflammatory cytokines, including interferons, can suppress CYP450 enzymes resulting in increased exposures of some CYP substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Therefore, patients on BESREMi who are receiving concomitant drugs that are CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index should be monitored to inform the need for dosage modification for these concomitant drugs. 7.2 Myelosuppressive Agents Concomitant use of BESREMi and myelosuppressive agents can produce additive myelosuppression. Avoid use and monitor patients receiving the combination for effects of excessive myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . 7.3 Narcotics, Hypnotics or Sedatives Concomitant use of BESREMi and narcotics, hypnotics or sedatives can produce additive neuropsychiatric side effects. Avoid use and monitor patients receiving the combination for effects of excessive CNS toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Monitor patients taking CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index for adverse reactions to inform the need for dose adjustment of the concomitant drug ( 7.1 ) Avoid use with myelosuppressive agents and monitor patients receiving the combination for effects of excessive myelosuppression ( 7.2 ) Avoid use with narcotics, hypnotics or sedatives. Monitor patients receiving the combination for excessive central nervous system toxicity ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Certain proinflammatory cytokines, including interferons, can suppress CYP450 enzymes resulting in increased exposures of some CYP substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, patients on BESREMi who are receiving concomitant drugs that are CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index should be monitored to inform the need for dosage modification for these concomitant drugs. 7.2 Myelosuppressive Agents Concomitant use of BESREMi and myelosuppressive agents can produce additive myelosuppression. Avoid use and monitor patients receiving the combination for effects of excessive myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.3 Narcotics, Hypnotics or Sedatives Concomitant use of BESREMi and narcotics, hypnotics or sedatives can produce additive neuropsychiatric side effects. Avoid use and monitor patients receiving the combination for effects of excessive CNS toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .
