Drug: rydapt

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase exposure to midostaurin and its active metabolites. Consider alternative therapies that do not strongly inhibit CYP3A4 or monitor for increased risk of adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 Inducers : Avoid concomitant use as strong CYP3A4 inducers decrease exposure to midostaurin and its active metabolites. ( 7.1 ) CYP2B6, BCRP, OATP1B1 Substrates : Dose adjustments for coadministered CYP2B6, BCRP, and OATP1B1 substrates may be necessary with RYDAPT. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on RYDAPT Table 6 lists the potential effects of the coadministration of strong CYP3A modulators on RYDAPT. Table 6: Drug Interactions with RYDAPT That Affect Midostaurin Strong CYP3A Inhibitors a The effect of grapefruit juice varies widely among brands and is concentration-, dose-, and preparation-dependent. Studies have shown that it can be classified as a “strong CYP3A inhibitor” when a certain preparation was used (e.g., high dose, double strength) or as a “moderate CYP3A inhibitor” when another preparation was used (e.g., low dose, single strength). b The induction potency of St. John’s wort may vary widely based on preparation. Clinical Impact Coadministration of RYDAPT with strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase midostaurin concentrations. The increase in midostaurin concentrations may be pronounced if strong CYP3A inhibitors are administered during the first week of RYDAPT administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Increased midostaurin concentrations may increase the risk of toxicity. Prevention or Management Consider alternative therapies that do not strongly inhibit CYP3A activity. Alternatively, with coadministration of RYDAPT and strong CYP3A inhibitors, monitor patients for increased risk of adverse reactions, especially during the first week of consecutive RYDAPT administration in advanced SM population, and during first week of RYDAPT administration in each cycle of chemotherapy in AML population. Examples Boceprevir, clarithromycin, cobicistat, conivaptan, danoprevir and ritonavir, diltiazem, elvitegravir and ritonavir, grapefruit juice a , idelalisib, indinavir and ritonavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir and ritonavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, paritaprevir and ritonavir and (ombitasvir and/or dasabuvir), posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir and ritonavir, tipranavir and ritonavir, troleandomycin, voriconazole Strong CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact Coadministration of RYDAPT with strong CYP3A inducers may decrease midostaurin concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Decreased midostaurin concentrations may reduce efficacy. Prevention or Management Avoid coadministration of RYDAPT with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Examples Carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort b 7.2 Effect of RYDAPT on Other Drugs CYP2B6 Substrates RYDAPT decreased the systemic exposure of a sensitive CYP2B6 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Dose adjustments for the coadministered CYP2B6 substrate may be necessary with RYDAPT. Substrates of Transporters Coadministration of RYDAPT increased the exposure of a breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP)1B1 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Dose adjustments for the coadministered BCRP or OATP1B1 substrates may be necessary with RYDAPT.
