Drug: sacubitril_and_valsartan

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 60. ( 7.1 ) • Potassium-sparing diuretics: May lead to increased serum potassium. ( 7.2 ) • Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May lead to increased risk of renal impairment. ( 7.3 ) • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated because of the increased risk of angioedema [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Avoid use of sacubitril and valsartan with an ARB, because sacubitril and valsartan contains the angiotensin II receptor blocker valsartan. The concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid use with aliskiren in patients with renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m²). 7.2 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, concomitant use of NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, with sacubitril and valsartan may result in worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically. 7.4 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use with sacubitril and valsartan.
