Drug: safinamide_mesylate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors: Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome ( 7.3 ) Sympathomimetic Medications: Monitor patients for hypertension ( 7.5 ) Tyramine: Risk of severe hypertension ( 7.6 ) 7.1 MAO Inhibitors (MAOIs) XADAGO is contraindicated for use with other drugs in the MAOIs class or other drugs that are potent inhibitors of monoamine oxidase (e.g., linezolid, an oxazolidinone antibacterial, which also has reversible nonselective MAO inhibition activity). Co-administration increases the risk of nonselective MAO inhibition, which may lead to hypertensive crisis [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of XADAGO and initiation of treatment with other MAOIs. Isoniazid has some monoamine oxidase inhibiting activity. Monitor for hypertension and reaction to dietary tyramine in patients treated concomitantly with isoniazid and XADAGO. 7.2 Opioid Drugs Because serious, sometimes fatal reactions have been precipitated with concomitant use of opioid drugs (e.g., meperidine and its derivatives, methadone, propoxyphene, or tramadol) and MAOIs, including selective MAO-B inhibitors, concomitant use of these drugs is contraindicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of XADAGO and initiation of treatment with these drugs. 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs Concomitant use of XADAGO with SNRIs; triazolopyridine, tricyclic or tetracyclic antidepressants; cyclobenzaprine (a skeletal muscle relaxant that is a tricyclic antidepressant derivative); or St. John's wort is contraindicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of XADAGO and initiation of treatment with these drugs. Monitor patients for symptoms of serotonin syndrome if SSRIs are used by patients treated with XADAGO [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.4 Dextromethorphan The combination of MAOIs and dextromethorphan has been reported to cause episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior. Therefore, in view of XADAGO's MAO inhibitory activity, dextromethorphan is contraindicated for use with XADAGO. 7.5 Sympathomimetic Medications Severe hypertensive reactions have followed the administration of sympathomimetics and nonselective MAOIs. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking the recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications. Concomitant use of XADAGO with methylphenidate, amphetamine, and their derivatives is contraindicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ] . Monitor patients for hypertension if XADAGO is prescribed concomitantly with prescription or nonprescription sympathomimetic medications, including nasal, oral, or ophthalmic decongestants and cold remedies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.6 Tyramine MAO in the gastrointestinal tract and liver (primarily type A) provides protection from exogenous amines (e.g., tyramine). If tyramine were absorbed intact, it could lead to severe hypertension, including hypertensive crisis. Aged, fermented, cured, smoked, and pickled foods containing large amounts of exogenous amines (e.g., aged cheese, pickled herring) may cause release of norepinephrine resulting in a rise in blood pressure (Tyramine Reaction). Patients should be advised to avoid foods containing a large amount of tyramine while taking recommended doses of XADAGO [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Selectivity for inhibiting MAO-B decreases in a dose-related manner above the highest recommended daily dosage, which may increase the risk for hypertension [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . In addition, isoniazid has some monoamine oxidase inhibiting activity. Monitor for hypertension and reaction to dietary tyramine in patients treated with isoniazid and XADAGO [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.7 Dopaminergic Antagonists Dopamine antagonists, such as antipsychotics or metoclopramide, may decrease the effectiveness of XADAGO and exacerbate the symptoms of PD.
