Drug: sarecycline_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral retinoids: avoid coadministration. ( 5.4 , 7.1 ) Antacids and iron preparations: separate dosing of SEYSARA. ( 7.1 ) Penicillin: avoid coadministration. ( 7.2 ) Anticoagulants: decrease anticoagulant dosage as appropriate. ( 7.2 ) P-glycoprotein substrates: monitor for toxicities of drugs that may require dosage reduction. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on SEYSARA Oral Retinoids Tetracyclines may cause increased intracranial pressure as do oral retinoids, including isotretinoin and acitretin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Avoid coadministration of SEYSARA with oral retinoids. Antacids and Iron Preparations Coadministration with antacids containing aluminum, calcium or magnesium, bismuth subsalicylate, and iron-containing preparations may impair absorption of SEYSARA, similar to other tetracyclines, which may decrease its efficacy. Separate dosing of SEYSARA from antacids containing aluminum, calcium or magnesium, bismuth subsalicylate, and iron-containing preparations. 7.2 Effect of SEYSARA on Other Drugs Penicillin Similar to other tetracyclines, SEYSARA may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin. Avoid coadministration of SEYSARA with penicillin. Anticoagulants Similar to other tetracyclines, SEYSARA may depress plasma prothrombin activity, which may increase the risk of bleeding in patients who are on anticoagulant therapy. Decrease anticoagulant dosage when coadministered with SEYSARA as appropriate. P-Glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates Concomitant use of SEYSARA may increase concentrations of concomitantly administered P-gp substrates (e.g. digoxin). Monitor for toxicities of drugs that are P-gp substrates and may require dosage reduction when given concurrently with SEYSARA [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Oral Hormonal Contraceptives There is no clinically significant effect of SEYSARA on the efficacy of oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone acetate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
