Drug: saxagliptin_and_metformin_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) : Coadministration with KOMBIGLYZE XR significantly increases saxagliptin concentrations. Limit KOMBIGLYZE XR dosage to 2.5 mg/1,000 mg once daily when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors : May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. (7.2) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance : May increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider benefits and risks of concomitant use. (7.3) • See full prescribing information for additional drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A4/5 Enzymes Ketoconazole significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Similar significant increases in plasma concentrations of saxagliptin are anticipated with other strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors (e.g., atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, and telithromycin). The dose of KOMBIGLYZE XR should be limited to 2.5 mg of saxagliptin when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with KOMBIGLYZE XR may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. 7.3 Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. 7.4 Alcohol Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving KOMBIGLYZE XR. 7.5 Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia. Concomitant use of KOMBIGLYZE XR with insulin or an insulin secretagogue may require lower dosages of insulin or the insulin secretagogue to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 7.6 Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These medications include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving KOMBIGLYZE XR, observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving KOMBIGLYZE XR, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia.
