Drug: scopolamine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Causing Central Nervous System (CNS) Adverse Reactions: Monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions (drowsiness, dizziness or disorientations). (7.1) Anticholinergic Drugs: Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment in patients receiving other anticholinergic drugs. (7.2) Oral Drugs Absorbed in the Stomach: Monitor for increased or decreased therapeutic effect of the oral drug. (7.3) Interaction with Gastric Secretion Test: Discontinue use of scopolamine 10 days prior to testing. (7.4) 7.1 Drugs Causing Central Nervous System (CNS) Adverse Reactions The concurrent use of scopolamine with other drugs that cause CNS adverse reactions of drowsiness, dizziness or disorientation (e.g., sedatives, hypnotics, opiates, anxiolytics and alcohol) or have anticholinergic properties (e.g., other belladonna alkaloids, sedating antihistamines, meclizine, tricyclic antidepressants, and muscle relaxants) may potentiate the effects of scopolamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Either scopolamine or the interacting drug should be chosen, depending on the importance of the drug to the patient. If the interacting drug cannot be avoided, monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions. 7.2 Anticholinergic Drugs Concomitant use of scopolamine with other drugs having anticholinergic properties may increase the risk of CNS adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] , intestinal obstruction and/or urinary retention. Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with scopolamine in patients receiving anticholinergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4) ] . 7.3 Oral Drugs Absorbed in the Stomach Scopolamine, as an anticholinergic, may delay gastric and upper gastrointestinal motility and, therefore, the rate of absorption of other orally administered drugs. Monitor patients for modified therapeutic effect of concomitant orally administered drugs with a narrow therapeutic index. 7.4 Interaction with Gastric Secretion Test Scopolamine will interfere with the gastric secretion test. Discontinue scopolamine 10 days prior to testing.
