Drug: selegiline

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs Serious, sometimes fatal, central nervous system (CNS) toxicity referred to as the “serotonin syndrome” has been reported with the combination of nonselective MAOIs and serotonergic drugs. Use of EMSAM with these drugs is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Tyramine EMSAM has the capacity to inhibit intestinal MAO, which is responsible for the catabolism of tyramine in food and beverages. As a result of this inhibition, large amounts of tyramine may enter the systemic circulation and precipitate a sudden, large rise in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . A diet low in tyramine content may be necessary to avoid this interaction. Studies to evaluate the potential for EMSAM to inhibit tyramine metabolism have been conducted and, overall, the data for EMSAM 6 mg per 24 hours support a recommendation that a modified diet is not required at this dose. Due to the more limited data available for EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and the results from the Phase I tyramine challenge study in fed volunteers administered EMSAM 12 mg per 24 hours, patients receiving these doses should follow Dietary Modifications Required for Patients Taking EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and 12 mg per 24 hours below [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Dietary Modifications Required for Patients Taking EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and 12 mg per 24 hours The foods and beverages listed in Table 5 should be avoided beginning on the first day of EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours or 12 mg per 24 hours treatment, and should continue to be avoided for 2 weeks after a dose reduction to EMSAM 6 mg per 24 hours or following the discontinuation of EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours or 12 mg per 24 hours. Table 5. Food and Beverages to Avoid and Those which are Acceptable [see References (15) ] Class of Food and Beverage Tyramine-Rich Foods and Beverages to Avoid Acceptable Foods and Drinks, Containing No or Little Tyramine Meat, Poultry, and Fish Air dried, aged and fermented meats, sausages and salamis (including cacciatore, hard salami and mortadella); pickled herring; and any spoiled or improperly stored meat, poultry, and fish (e.g., foods that have undergone changes in coloration, odor, or become moldy); spoiled or improperly stored animal livers Fresh meat, poultry, and fish, including fresh processed meats (e.g., lunch meats, hot dogs, breakfast sausage, and cooked sliced ham) Vegetables Broad bean pods (fava bean pods) All other vegetables Dairy Aged cheeses Processed cheeses, mozzarella, ricotta cheese, cottage cheese, and yogurt Beverages All varieties of tap beer and beers that have not been pasteurized so as to allow for ongoing fermentation Concomitant use of alcohol with EMSAM is not recommended. (Bottled and canned beers and wines contain little or no tyramine.) Miscellaneous Concentrated yeast extract (e.g., Marmite), sauerkraut, most soybean products (including soy sauce and tofu), OTC supplements containing tyramine Brewer’s yeast, baker’s yeast, soy milk, commercial chain restaurant pizzas prepared with cheeses low in tyramine 7.3 Sympathomimetic Amines and Buspirone The use of EMSAM with sympathomimetic amines or buspirone may produce substantial elevations in blood pressure. Therefore, monitor blood pressure if EMSAM is used with any of the following drugs: buspirone, amphetamines, and cold products or weight-reducing preparations that contain sympathomimetic amines (e.g., pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, phenylpropanolamine, and ephedrine). 7.4 Effect of Other Drugs on EMSAM Carbamazepine is contraindicated with MAOIs, including selegiline [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . No dose adjustment for EMSAM is needed when EMSAM is used concomitantly with alcohol, alprazolam, ibuprofen, olanzapine, risperidone, levothyroxine, and CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole). No clinically meaningful change in selegiline exposure was seen when EMSAM was co-administered with alcohol, alprazolam, ibuprofen, olanzapine, risperidone, levothyroxine, and ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Effect of EMSAM on Other Drugs Use of alcohol while taking EMSAM is not recommended, even though EMSAM has not been shown to increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol (0.75 mg per kg) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Monitor blood pressure if sympathomimetic agents (e.g., phenylpropanolamine (PPA) or pseudoephedrine) are used with EMSAM, even though selegiline does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of PPA or pseudoephedrine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . No dose adjustment of alprazolam, ibuprofen, levothyroxine, olanzapine, risperidone, warfarin, or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) is necessary when these drugs are used in combination with EMSAM. EMSAM had no clinically relevant effect on pharmacokinetics of these drugs.
