Drug: selumetinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Fluconazole : Avoid coadministration of strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or fluconazole with KOSELUGO. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of KOSELUGO. ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) • Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers : Avoid concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on KOSELUGO Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Fluconazole Management • Avoid concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or fluconazole with KOSELUGO. If coadministration with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or fluconazole cannot be avoided, reduce KOSELUGO dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Clinical Impact • Concomitant use of KOSELUGO with a strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor or fluconazole increased selumetinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Management • Avoid concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers with KOSELUGO. Clinical Impact • Concomitant use of KOSELUGO with a strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased selumetinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce KOSELUGO efficacy. Vitamin E Management • Supplemental vitamin E is not recommended if daily vitamin E intake (including the amount of vitamin E in KOSELUGO capsules and supplement) will exceed the recommended or safe limits. • Monitor for bleeding in patients administered a vitamin‑K antagonist or an anti‑platelet agent with KOSELUGO capsules. Increase INR monitoring, as appropriate, in patients taking a vitamin‑K antagonist [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Clinical Impact • KOSELUGO capsules contain vitamin E and daily vitamin E intake that exceeds the recommended or safe limits may increase the risk of bleeding. An increased risk of bleeding may occur in patients taking a vitamin‑K antagonist or an anti‑platelet agent with KOSELUGO capsules.
