Drug: sepiapterin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dihydrofolate Reductase (DHFR) Inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use (e.g., trimethoprim, methotrexate, trimetrexate, pemetrexed, pralatrexate, raltitrexed, or piritrexim). ( 7.1 ) Sepiapterin Reductase (SR) Inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use (e.g. sulfasalazine or sulfamethoxazole). ( 7.1 ) Interaction with Levodopa : Monitor patients for a change in neurologic status. ( 7.2 ) Drugs Affecting Nitric Oxide-Mediated Vasorelaxation : Potential for vasorelaxation; monitor blood pressure (e.g., PDE-5 inhibitors). ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on SEPHIENCE Avoid concomitant use of drugs known to inhibit folate synthesis dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) (e.g., trimethoprim, methotrexate, trimetrexate, pemetrexed, pralatrexate, raltitrexed, and piritrexim) while taking SEPHIENCE. Concomitant administration of such drugs may reduce sepiapterin metabolism to tetrahydrobiopterin (BH 4 ). If concomitant use is not avoidable, monitor blood Phe levels. Avoid concomitant use of sepiapterin reductase (SR) inhibitors with SEPHIENCE. Concomitant administration of such drugs may reduce sepiapterin metabolism to BH 4 . If concomitant use is not avoidable, monitor blood Phe levels. 7.2 Effects of SEPHIENCE on Other Drugs SEPHIENCE may increase the availability of tyrosine, a precursor of levodopa. Neurologic events were reported postmarketing in patients receiving another PAH activator and levodopa concomitantly for a non-PKU indication. Monitor patients for a change in neurologic status when levodopa is administered with SEPHIENCE [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 7.3 Drugs Affecting Nitric Oxide-Mediated Vasorelaxation SEPHIENCE and PDE-5 inhibitors induce vasorelaxation, thus concomitant use of SEPHIENCE with PDE-5 inhibitors may reduce blood pressure even further. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension with concomitant use of SEPHIENCE with drugs that affect nitric oxide-mediated vasorelaxation (e.g., PDE-5 inhibitors such as sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil).
