Drug: sertraline_hcl

=== Drug Interactions ===
7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 5 includes clinically significant drug interactions with sertraline hydrochloride [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Table 5. Clinically-Significant Drug Interactions with Sertraline Hydrochloride Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of SSRIs including sertraline hydrochloride and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.5), CONTRAINDICATIONS (4), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. Examples: selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Pimozide Clinical Impact: Increased plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. Intervention: Concomitant use of pimozide and sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated [See CONTRAINDICATIONS (4)]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with sertraline hydrochloride increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. Examples: Other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John’s Wort. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with sertraline hydrochloride may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.3)]. Examples: aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin, warfarin Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Clinical Impact: Sertraline hydrochloride is highly bound to plasma protein. The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of sertraline hydrochloride or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Intervention: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of sertraline hydrochloride or other protein-bound drugs as warranted. Examples: warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Sertraline hydrochloride is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride with a CYP2D6 substrate may increase the exposure of the CYP2D6 substrate. Intervention: Decrease the dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate if needed with concomitant sertraline hydrochloride use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate may be needed if sertraline hydrochloride is discontinued. Examples: propafenone, flecainide, atomoxetine, desipramine, dextromethorphan, metoprolol, nebivolol, perphenazine, thioridazine, tolterodine, venlafaxine Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Phenytoin is a narrow therapeutic index drug. Sertraline hydrochloride may increase phenytoin concentrations. Intervention: Monitor phenytoin levels when initiating or titrating sertraline hydrochloride. Reduce phenytoin dosage if needed. Examples: phenytoin, fosphenytoin Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: The risk of QTc prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., TdP) is increased with concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.10), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.2)]. Intervention: Pimozide is contraindicated for use with sertraline. Avoid the concomitant use of drugs known to prolong the QTc interval. Examples: Specific antipsychotics (e.g., ziprasidone, iloperidone, chlorpromazine, mesoridazine, droperidol); specific antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin, sparfloxacin); Class 1A antiarrhythmic medications (e.g., quinidine, procainamide); Class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol); and others (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone, halofantrine, mefloquine, dolasetron mesylate, probucol or tacrolimus). 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Sertraline Hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of sertraline hydrochloride is necessary when used in combination with cimetidine. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is required for diazepam, lithium, atenolol, tolbutamide, digoxin, and drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, when sertraline hydrochloride is administered concomitantly [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.3 False-Positive Screening Tests for Benzodiazepines False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for benzodiazepines have been reported in patients taking sertraline hydrochloride. This finding is due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False-positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish sertraline from benzodiazepines.
