Drug: siponimod

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Vaccination: Avoid live-attenuated vaccines during and for up to 4 weeks after treatment with MAYZENT. ( 7.4 ) CYP2C9 and Dual CYP2C9/3A4 Inhibitors: Strong CYP2C9 inhibitors increase siponimod exposure; concomitant use with MAYZENT is not recommended. Monitor for adverse reactions during concomitant use of MAYZENT with moderate CYP2C9 inhibitors or moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4 dual inhibitors. ( 7.5 ) CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 Inducers: Dual moderate CYP2C9/strong CYP3A4 inducers decrease siponimod exposure; concomitant use with MAYZENT is not recommended. Monitor for loss of efficacy with concomitant use of MAYZENT and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers in patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 or *2/*3 genotypes. ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Anti-Neoplastic, Immune-Modulating, or Immunosuppressive Therapies MAYZENT has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic, immune-modulating, or immunosuppressive therapies. Caution should be used during concomitant administration because of the risk of additive immune effects during such therapy and in the weeks following administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . When switching from drugs with prolonged immune effects, the half-life and mode of action of these drugs must be considered in order to avoid unintended additive immunosuppressive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] . Because of the characteristics and duration of alemtuzumab immune suppressive effects, initiating treatment with MAYZENT after alemtuzumab is not recommended. MAYZENT can generally be started immediately after discontinuation of beta interferon or glatiramer acetate. 7.2 Anti-Arrhythmic Drugs, QT Prolonging Drugs, Drugs That May Decrease Heart Rate MAYZENT has not been studied in patients taking QT prolonging drugs. Class Ia (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) and Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic drugs have been associated with cases of Torsades de Pointes in patients with bradycardia. If treatment with MAYZENT is considered, advice from a cardiologist should be sought. Because of the potential additive effects on heart rate, treatment with MAYZENT should generally not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with QT prolonging drugs with known arrhythmogenic properties, heart-rate lowering calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem), or other drugs that may decrease heart rate (e.g., ivabradine, digoxin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7.3)] . If treatment with MAYZENT is considered, advice from a cardiologist should be sought regarding the switch to non-heart-rate lowering drugs or appropriate monitoring for treatment initiation. 7.3 Beta-Blockers Caution should be applied when MAYZENT is initiated in patients receiving treatment with a beta-blocker because of the additive effects on lowering heart rate; temporary interruption of the beta-blocker treatment may be needed prior to initiation of MAYZENT [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of MAYZENT [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . 7.4 Vaccination During and for up to one month after discontinuation of treatment with MAYZENT, vaccinations may be less effective [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . The use of live-attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during MAYZENT treatment and for up to 4 weeks after discontinuation of treatment with MAYZENT [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 7.5 CYP2C9 and Dual CYP2C9/CYP3A4 Inhibitors Concomitant use of MAYZENT and drugs that cause strong CYP2C9 inhibition is not recommended because a clinically relevant increase in exposure to siponimod is anticipated. Monitor for adverse reactions during concomitant use of MAYZENT with moderate CYP2C9 inhibitors or moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4 dual inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.6 CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 Inducers Because of an expected significant reduction in siponimod exposure, concomitant use of MAYZENT and dual moderate CYP2C9/strong CYP3A4 inducers in patients with all CYP2C9 genotypes is not recommended. Monitor for loss of efficacy with concomitant use of MAYZENT and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers in patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 or *2/*3 genotype [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .
