Drug: sodium_polystyrene_sulfonate

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions General Interactions No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted in humans. Sodium polystyrene sulfonate suspension has the potential to bind other drugs. In in-vitro binding studies, sodium polystyrene sulfonate was shown to significantly bind the oral medications (n=6) that were tested. Decreased absorption of lithium and thyroxine have also been reported with co-administration of sodium polystyrene sulfonate. Binding of sodium polystyrene sulfonate suspension to other oral medications could cause decreased gastrointestinal absorption and loss of efficacy when taken close to the time sodium polystyrene sulfonate suspension is administered. Administer sodium polystyrene sulfonate suspension at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after other oral medications. Patients with gastroparesis may require a 6 hour separation. Monitor for clinical response and/or blood levels where possible. Antacids The simultaneous oral administration of sodium polystyrene sulfonate with nonabsorbable cation-donating antacids and laxatives may reduce the resin's potassium exchange capability. Nonabsorbable cation-donating antacids and laxatives Systemic alkalosis has been reported after cation exchange resins were administered orally in combination with nonabsorbable cation-donating antacids and laxatives such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum carbonate. Magnesium hydroxide should not be administered with sodium polystyrene sulfonate. One case of grand mal seizure has been reported in a patient with chronic hypocalcemia of renal failure who was given sodium polystyrene sulfonate with magnesium hydroxide as a laxative. Intestinal obstruction due to concretions of aluminum hydroxide when used in combination with sodium polystyrene sulfonate has been reported. Digitalis The toxic effects of digitalis on the heart, especially various ventricular arrhythmias and A-V nodal dissociation, are likely to be exaggerated by hypokalemia, even in the face of serum digoxin concentrations in the "normal range" (See WARNINGS ). Sorbitol Concomitant use of sorbitol with sodium polystyrene sulfonate has been implicated in cases of intestinal necrosis, which may be fatal (See WARNINGS ). Lithium SPS ® Suspension may decrease absorption of lithium. Thyroxine SPS ® Suspension may decrease absorption of thyroxine.
