Drug: sodium_chloride,_sodium_gluconate,_sodium_acetate,_potassium_chloride_and_magnes

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions Other Products that Affect Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance Administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload. Avoid use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP in patients receiving such products, such as corticosteroids or corticotropin. If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum electrolytes, fluid balance and acid-base balance. Other Drugs that Increase the Risk of Hyponatremia Administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. Avoid use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP in patients receiving products, such as diuretics, and certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications. Drugs that increase the vasopressin effect reduce renal electrolyte free water excretion and may also increase the risk of hyponatremia following treatment with intravenous fluids. If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum sodium concentrations. Lithium Renal clearance of lithium may be increased during administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP. Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use. Other Products that Increase the Risk of Hyperkalemia Because of its potassium content, avoid use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP in patients receiving products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. If use cannot be avoided, monitor serum potassium concentrations. Drugs with pH Dependent Renal Elimination Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP may interfere with the elimination of drugs with pH dependent renal elimination. Renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased.
