Drug: sodium_chloride,_potassium_chloride,_sodium_lactate_and_calcium_chloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor electrolyte concentrations and fluid balance. ( 7.1 ) • Lithium : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor serum lithium concentrations more frequently. ( 7.2 ) • Digoxin : consider reducing the volume or rate of Lactated Ringer’s Injection due to the increased risk of digoxin toxicity with calcium-containing solutions. ( 7.3 ) • Drugs with pH-Dependent Renal Elimination : Renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased. In contrast, renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance Hyperkalemia Administration of Lactated Ringer’s Injection to patients concomitantly treated or recently treated with drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of other hyperkalemia risk factors . Avoid use of Lactated Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia (e.g., potassium-sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or calcineurin inhibitors). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Hyponatremia Administration of Lactated Ringer’s Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. These drugs include diuretics and those that cause SIADH (e.g., arginine vasopressin analogs, certain antiepileptic, psychotropic, or cytotoxic drugs). Avoid use of Lactated Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving such drugs. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum sodium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Hypercalcemia Avoid the use of Lactated Ringer’s Injection in patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D because these drugs can increase the risk of hypercalcemia. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Hypernatremia and Fluid Retention Administration of Lactated Ringer’s Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention (e.g., corticosteroids or corticotropin) may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload. Avoid use of Lactated Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving such drugs. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum electrolytes, fluid balance, and acid-base balance during concomitant use. 7.2 Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during concomitant use of Lactated Ringer’s Injection and lithium and may result in decreased lithium concentrations. Avoid use of Lactated Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving lithium. If use cannot be avoided, increase the frequency of monitoring of serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use. 7.3 Digoxin Administration of calcium via use of Lactated Ringer’s Injection may increase digoxin’s effects and lead to digoxin toxicity including serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmias. In digoxin-treated patients, consider reducing the volume and/or rate of Lactated Ringer’s Injection administration. 7.4 Drugs with pH-Dependent Renal Elimination Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer’s Injection may interfere with the elimination of drugs with pH-dependent renal elimination. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased. In contrast, renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased. 7.5 Interference of Lactated Ringer’s Injection with Interpretation of Serum Lactate Levels in Patients with Severe Metabolic Acidosis Because administration of Lactated Ringer’s Injection may interfere with the interpretation of serum lactate levels in patients with severe metabolic acidosis, including lactic acidosis, assessment of the patient’s clinical status should not solely rely on the measurement of serum lactate.
