Drug: sotalol_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Class I or III Antiarrhythmics or other drugs that prolong the QT interval: Avoid concomitant use ( 7.1 ) Digoxin, calcium channel blocker: increased risk of bradycardia, hypotension, heart failure ( 7.2 ) Dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may need adjustment ( 7.4 ) Aluminum or magnesium-based antacids reduce sotalol exposure ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiarrhythmics and other QT Prolonging Drugs Discontinue Class I or Class III antiarrhythmic agents for at least three half-lives prior to dosing with sotalol. Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs, such as disopyramide, quinidine and procainamide, and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol hydrochloride, because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.2 Negative Chronotropes Digitalis glycosides, diltiazem, verapamil, and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use with negative chronotropes can increase the risk of bradycardia or hypotension. 7.3 Catecholamine-Depleting Agents Concomitant use of catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine and guanethidine, with a beta-blocker may produce an excessive reduction of resting sympathetic nervous tone. Monitor such patients for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce syncope. 7.4 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur, and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 7.5 Beta-2-Receptor Stimulants Beta-agonists such as albuterol, terbutaline and isoproterenol may have to be administered in increased dosages when used concomitantly with sotalol. 7.6 Clonidine Concomitant use with sotalol increases the risk of bradycardia and AV block. Because beta-blockers may potentiate the rebound hypertension sometimes observed after clonidine discontinuation, withdraw sotalol several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine to reduce the risk of rebound hypertension. 7.7 Antacids Avoid administration of oral sotalol within 2 hours of antacids containing aluminum oxide and magnesium hydroxide. 7.8 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions The presence of sotalol in the urine may result in falsely elevated levels of urinary metanephrine when measured by fluorimetric or photometric methods.
