Drug: sotorasib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Acid-Reducing Agents: Avoid coadministration with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and H 2 receptor antagonists. If an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer LUMAKRAS 4 hours before or 10 hours after a local antacid. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers. ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 Substrates: Avoid coadministration with CYP3A4 substrates for which minimal concentration changes may lead to therapeutic failures of the substrate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, adjust the substrate dosage in accordance to its Prescribing Information. ( 7.2 ) P-gp substrates: Avoid coadministration with P-gp substrates for which minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the substrate dosage in accordance to its Prescribing Information. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on LUMAKRAS Acid-Reducing Agents The solubility of sotorasib is pH-dependent. Coadministration of LUMAKRAS with gastric acid-reducing agents decreased sotorasib concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the efficacy of sotorasib. Avoid coadministration of LUMAKRAS with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), H 2 receptor antagonists, and locally acting antacids. If coadministration with an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer LUMAKRAS 4 hours before or 10 hours after administration of a locally acting antacid [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Sotorasib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of LUMAKRAS with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased sotorasib concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the efficacy of sotorasib. Avoid coadministration of LUMAKRAS with strong CYP3A4 inducers . 7.2 Effects of LUMAKRAS on Other Drugs CYP3A4 Substrates Sotorasib is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of LUMAKRAS with a CYP3A4 substrate decreased its plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the efficacy of the substrate. Avoid coadministration of LUMAKRAS with CYP3A4 sensitive substrates, for which minimal concentration changes may lead to therapeutic failures of the substrate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate dosage in accordance with its Prescribing Information . P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates Sotorasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of LUMAKRAS with a P-gp substrate increased its plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the adverse reactions of the substrate. Avoid coadministration of LUMAKRAS with P-gp substrates, for which minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the P-gp substrate dosage in accordance with its Prescribing Information . Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) Substrates Sotorasib is a BCRP-inhibitor. Coadministration of LUMAKRAS with a BCRP substrate increased its plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of the substrate. When coadministered with LUMAKRAS, monitor for adverse reactions of the BCRP substrate and decrease the BCRP substrate dosage in accordance with its Prescribing Information.
