Drug: sparsentan

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use. Increased sparsentan exposure ( 2.7 , 7.2 , 12.3 ). • Moderate CYP3A inhibitors: Monitor adverse reactions. Increased sparsentan exposure ( 7.2 , 12.3 ). • Strong CYP3A inducers: Avoid concomitant use. Decreased sparsentan exposure ( 7.3 , 12.3 ). • Antacids: Avoid use within 2 hours before or after use of sparsentan. May decrease exposure to sparsentan ( 7.4 , 11 ). • Acid reducing agents: Avoid concomitant use. May decrease exposure to sparsentan ( 7.4 ). • Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors: Monitor for signs of worsening renal function. Increased risk of kidney injury ( 7.5 ). • CYP2B6, 2C9, and 2C19 substrates: Monitor for substrate efficacy. Decreased exposure of these substrates ( 7.6 , 12.3 ). • Sensitive P-gp and BCRP substrates: Avoid concomitant use. Increased exposure to substrates ( 7.7 , 12.3 ). • Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Increased risk of hyperkalemia, monitor serum potassium frequently ( 5.6 , 7.8 ). 7.1 Renin-Angiotensin System Inhibitors and ERAs Do not coadminister FILSPARI with ARBs, ERAs, or aliskiren [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Contraindications ( 4 )] . Combined use of these agents is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure). 7.2 Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use of FILSPARI with strong CYP3A inhibitors. If a strong CYP3A inhibitor cannot be avoided, interrupt treatment with FILSPARI. When resuming treatment with FILSPARI, consider dose titration [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monitor blood pressure, serum potassium, edema, and kidney function regularly when used concomitantly with moderate CYP3A inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.6 , 5.7 )] . No FILSPARI dose adjustment is needed. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increases sparsentan C max and AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of FILSPARI adverse reactions. 7.3 Strong CYP3A Inducers Avoid concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inducer. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inducer decreases sparsentan C max and AUC [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce FILSPARI efficacy. 7.4 Antacids and Acid Reducing Agents Administer FILSPARI 2 hours before or after administration of antacids. Avoid concomitant use of acid reducing agents (histamine H2 receptor antagonist and PPI proton pump inhibitor) with FILSPARI. Sparsentan exhibits pH-dependent solubility [see Description ( 11 )] . Antacids or acid reducing agents may decrease sparsentan exposure which may reduce FILSPARI efficacy. 7.5 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDs), Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors Monitor for signs of worsening renal function with concomitant use with NSAIDs (including selective COX-2 inhibitors). In patients with volume depletion (including those on diuretic therapy) or with impaired kidney function, concomitant use of NSAIDs (including selective COX-2 inhibitors) with drugs that antagonize the angiotensin II receptor may result in deterioration of kidney function, including possible kidney failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . These effects are usually reversible. 7.6 CYP2B6, 2C9, and 2C19 Substrates Monitor for efficacy of the concurrently administered CYP2B6, 2C9, and 2C19 substrates and consider dosage adjustment in accordance with the Prescribing Information. Sparsentan is an inducer of CYP2B6, 2C9, and 2C19. Sparsentan decreases exposure of these substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce efficacy related to these substrates. 7.7 P-gp and BCRP Substrates Avoid concomitant use of sensitive substrates of P-gp and BCRP with FILSPARI. Sparsentan is an inhibitor of P-gp and BCRP. Sparsentan may increase exposure of these transporter substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. 7.8 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Monitor serum potassium frequently in patients treated with FILSPARI and other agents that increase serum potassium. Concomitant use of FILSPARI with potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, potassium-containing salt substitutes, or other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] .
