Drug: sulopenem_etzadroxil_and_probenecid

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ketoprofen : Concomitant use is not recommended ( 7.1 ) See full prescribing information for additional clinically significant drug interactions with ORLYNVAH ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Potential for ORLYNVAH to Affect Other Drugs Probenecid (a component of ORLYNVAH) is an inhibitor of organic anion transporters 1 and 3 (OAT1/3) and may increase plasma concentrations of drugs that are dependent on OAT1/3 for elimination. Table 2 provides a list of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. Table 2. Established and Other Potentially Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug/Drug Class Effect on Drug Concentration Recommendation Ketorolac tromethamine ↑ ketorolac tromethamine Contraindicated Ketoprofen ↑ ketoprofen Concomitant use is not recommended. Indomethacin ↑ indomethacin May increase the risk of adverse reactions. Refer to drug-specific prescribing information for dosage adjustment instructions. Naproxen ↑ naproxen May increase the risk of adverse reactions. Refer to drug-specific prescribing information for dosage adjustment instructions. Methotrexate ↑ methotrexate If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor more frequently for adverse reactions associated with methotrexate as recommended in its prescribing information. Rifampin ↑ rifampin Monitor more frequently for adverse reactions associated with rifampin as recommended in its prescribing information. Lorazepam ↑ lorazepam Follow the recommended lorazepam dosage modifications outlined in its prescribing information. Oral Sulfonylureas ↑ antidiabetic Monitor more frequently for hypoglycemia. Follow recommended sulfonylurea dosage modifications in its prescribing information. Valproic Acid No valproic acid dosage adjustment is recommended when used concomitantly with ORLYNVAH. No clinically significant reduction in plasma valproic acid concentrations was observed following concomitant use with ORLYNVAH [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect ORLYNVAH Sulopenem is a substrate of OAT3; therefore, drugs that inhibit OAT3 may increase sulopenem plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. If concomitant use with ORLYNVAH is necessary, monitor more frequently for adverse reactions associated with ORLYNVAH (e.g., diarrhea and nausea) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. 7.3 Drug/Laboratory Interactions Treatment with ORLYNVAH may interfere with copper sulfate urine glucose tests, resulting in false-positive readings for glycosuria. Suspected glycosuria should be confirmed by using a test specific for glucose. Falsely high readings for theophylline have been reported in an in vitro study, using the Schack and Waxler technique, when therapeutic concentrations of theophylline and probenecid (a component of ORLYNVAH) were added to human plasma.
