Drug: tacrolimus_extended-release_capsules

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Risk of rejection with strong CYP3A inducers and risk of serious adverse reactions with strong CYP3A inhibitors: Adjust dose and monitor tacrolimus concentrations. ( 2.4 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus extended-release capsules should be considered when tacrolimus extended-release capsules is co-administered with cannabidiol. ( 2.4 , 5.15 , 7.3 ) See Full Prescribing Information for clinically significant drug interactions. ( 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Mycophenolic Acid When tacrolimus extended-release capsules is prescribed with a given dose of a mycophenolic acid (MPA) product, exposure to MPA is higher with tacrolimus extended-release capsules co-administration than with cyclosporine co-administration with MPA, because cyclosporine interrupts the enterohepatic recirculation of MPA while tacrolimus does not. Monitor for MPA-associated adverse reactions and reduce the dose of concomitantly administered mycophenolic acid products as needed. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Table 5 displays the effects of other drugs on tacrolimus extended-release capsules. Table 5: Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of co-administered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] , literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Grapefruit or grapefruit juice High dose or double strength grapefruit juice is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; low dose or single strength grapefruit juice is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice. Alcohol May increase the rate of tacrolimus release and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation ) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Avoid alcoholic beverages. Strong CYP3A Inducers Strong CYP3A inhibitor/inducer, based on reported effect on exposures to tacrolimus along with supporting in vitro CYP3A inhibitor/inducer data, or based on drug-drug interaction studies with midazolam (sensitive CYP3A probe substrate). : Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Increase tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone, letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation). A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Reduce tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1-3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Methylprednisolone, prednisone May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )] . Caspofungin May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.4) ] . Direct Acting Antiviral (DAA) Therapy The pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus may be impacted by changes in liver function during DAA therapy, related to clearance of HCV virus. Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus extended-release capsules is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )] . 7.3 Cannabidiol The blood levels of tacrolimus may increase upon concomitant use with cannabidiol. When cannabidiol and tacrolimus extended-release capsules are co-administered, closely monitor for an increase in tacrolimus blood levels and for adverse reactions suggestive of tacrolimus toxicity. A dose reduction of tacrolimus extended-release capsules should be considered as needed when tacrolimus extended-release capsules is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] .
