Drug: tacrolimus

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Mycophenolic Acid Products: Can increase MPA exposure after crossover from cyclosporine to tacrolimus; monitor for MPA-related adverse reactions and adjust MMF or MPA dose as needed. ( 7.1 ) • Nelfinavir and Grapefruit Juice: Increased tacrolimus concentrations via CYP3A inhibition; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) • CYP3A Inhibitors: Increased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) • CYP3A4 Inducers: Decreased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ). • Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus should be considered when tacrolimus is coadministered with cannabidiol ( 5.17 , 7.3 ). 7.1 Mycophenolic Acid When tacrolimus is prescribed with a given dose of a mycophenolic acid (MPA) product, exposure to MPA is higher with tacrolimus co-administration than with cyclosporine co-administration with MPA, because cyclosporine interrupts the enterohepatic recirculation of MPA while tacrolimus does not. Monitor for MPA-associated adverse reactions and reduce the dose of concomitantly administered mycophenolic acid products as needed. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on Tacrolimus Table 15 displays the effects of other drugs on tacrolimus. Table 15: Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus * Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Grapefruit or grapefruit juice † May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )]. Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice. Strong CYP3A Inducers ‡ : Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s Wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Increase tacrolimus dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Strong CYP3A Inhibitors ‡ : Protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone, letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation). A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )]. Reduce tacrolimus dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1 to 3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] . Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole), calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Methylprednisolone, prednisone May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )] . Caspofungin May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )] . * tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of coadministered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. † High dose or double strength grapefruit juice is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; low dose or single strength grapefruit juice is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. ‡Strong CYP3A inhibitor/inducer, based on reported effect on exposures to tacrolimus along with supporting in vitro CYP3A inhibitor/inducer data, or based on drug-drug interaction studies with midazolam (sensitive CYP3A probe substrate). Direct Acting Antiviral (DAA) Therapy The pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus may be impacted by changes in liver function during DAA therapy, related to clearance of HCV virus. Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )] . 7.3 Cannabidiol The blood levels of tacrolimus may increase upon concomitant use with cannabidiol. When cannabidiol and tacrolimus are coadministered, closely monitor for an increase in tacrolimus blood levels and for adverse reactions suggestive of tacrolimus toxicity. A dose reduction of tacrolimus should be considered as needed when tacrolimus is coadministered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2, 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )] .
