Drug: taletrectinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong and Moderate CYP3A inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Strong and Moderate CYP3A inducers: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Gastric Acid Reducing Agents: Avoid concomitant use with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and H2 receptor antagonists. If an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer IBTROZI 2 hours before or 2 hours after taking a locally acting antacid. ( 7.1 ) Drugs That Prolong the QTc Interval: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on IBTROZI Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate. Concomitant use of IBTROZI with a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor increases taletrectinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of IBTROZI adverse reactions. Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Avoid concomitant use with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of IBTROZI with a strong or moderate CYP3A inducer decreases taletrectinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce the effectiveness of IBTROZI. Gastric Acid Reducing Agents Avoid concomitant use with proton pump inhibitors (PPI) and H2 receptor antagonists. Administer locally acting antacids at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after taking IBTROZI [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant use of a proton pump inhibitor decreases taletrectinib exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may reduce the effectiveness of IBTROZI. 7.2. Drugs That Prolong the QTc Interval Avoid concomitant use of IBTROZI with other drug(s) with a known potential to prolong the QTc interval, such as antiarrhythmic drugs. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, adjust the frequency of monitoring as recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Withhold IBTROZI if the QTc interval is >500 msec or the change from baseline is >60 msec [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. IBTROZI causes QTc interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Concomitant use of IBTROZI with other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation.
