Drug: tecovirimat_monohydrate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. ( 5.1 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of TPOXX on Other Drugs Tecovirimat is a weak inducer of cytochrome P450 (CYP)3A and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8 and CYP2C19. However, the effects are not expected to be clinically relevant for most substrates of those enzymes based on the magnitude of interactions and the duration of treatment of TPOXX. Table 5 provides a listing of established or significant drug interactions and clinical recommendations for select sensitive substrates [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 5: Significant Drug Interactions with Effect of TPOXX on Other Drugs a ↓ = decrease, ↑ = increase b These interactions have been studied in healthy adults. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration a Clinical Effect/Recommendation Blood Glucose-Lowering Agent: Repaglinide b ↑ repaglinide Monitor blood glucose and monitor for hypoglycemic symptoms in patients when TPOXX is co-administered with repaglinide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . CNS Depressant: Midazolam b ↓ midazolam Monitor for effectiveness of midazolam. 7.2 Effect of Other drugs on TPOXX Co-administration of phosphate binders with tecovirimat increases tecovirimat bioavailability. Table 6 provides a listing of established drug interactions and clinical recommendations for select phosphate binders [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 6: Significant Drug Interactions with Effect of Other Drugs on TPOXX a ↑ = increase b These interactions have been studied in healthy adults. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration a Clinical Effect/Recommendation Phosphate Binders b : Calcium acetate Lanthanum carbonate Sevelamer carbonate Sucroferric oxyhydroxide ↑ tecovirimat Monitor for signs or symptoms of adverse effects when TPOXX is co-administered with phosphate binders [see Overdose ( 10 )] . 7.3 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions With TPOXX Based on a drug interaction study, no clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when TPOXX is co-administered with bupropion, flurbiprofen, or omeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Vaccine Interactions No vaccine-drug interaction studies have been performed in human subjects. Some animal studies have indicated that co-administration of TPOXX at the same time as live smallpox vaccine (vaccinia virus) may reduce the immune response to the vaccine. The clinical impact of this interaction on vaccine efficacy is unknown.
