Drug: telmisartan,_amlodipine_and_indapamide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS NSAIDs: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of anti-hypertensive effect ( 7.1 ) If simvastatin is co-administered with Widaplik, do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin ( 7.2 ) Do not co-administer aliskiren with Widaplik in patients with diabetes ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions with Telmisartan Aliskiren and other renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors: Do not co-administer aliskiren with Widaplik in patients with diabetes. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid use of aliskiren with Widaplik in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Digoxin: When telmisartan was co-administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. Monitor digoxin levels when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing Widaplik to keep the digoxin level within the therapeutic range. Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists including telmisartan. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use [see Drug Interactions with Indapamide ( 7.3 )] . Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including telmisartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving Widaplik and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including telmisartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine Impact of other drugs on amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Co-administration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when Widaplik is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment. CYP3A Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be closely monitored when Widaplik is co-administered with CYP3A inducers. Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co-administered with Widaplik. Impact of amlodipine on other drugs Simvastatin: Co-administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on Widaplik to 20 mg daily. Immunosuppressants: Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus and dose adjustment when appropriate is recommended. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Indapamide Lithium: In general, diuretics should not be given concomitantly with lithium because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such concomitant therapy. Norepinephrine: Indapamide, like thiazide diuretics, may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but this diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use.
