Drug: tenofovir_alafenamide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS VEMLIDY is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP. Drugs that strongly affect P-gp and BCRP activity may lead to changes in VEMLIDY absorption. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug-drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect VEMLIDY VEMLIDY is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP. Drugs that strongly affect P-gp and BCRP activity may lead to changes in tenofovir alafenamide absorption (see Table 4 ). Drugs that induce P-gp activity are expected to decrease the absorption of tenofovir alafenamide, resulting in decreased plasma concentrations of tenofovir alafenamide, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of VEMLIDY. Coadministration of VEMLIDY with other drugs that inhibit P-gp and BCRP may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir alafenamide. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Because tenofovir is primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, coadministration of VEMLIDY with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and other renally eliminated drugs and this may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Some examples of drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Interactions Table 4 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with tenofovir alafenamide or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with VEMLIDY [For magnitude of interaction, see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Information regarding potential drug-drug interactions with HIV antiretrovirals is not provided (see the prescribing information for emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide for interactions with HIV antiretrovirals). The table includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive. Table 4 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions This table is not all inclusive. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration ↓ = decrease. Clinical Comment Anticonvulsants: ↓ tenofovir alafenamide When coadministered with carbamazepine, the tenofovir alafenamide dose should be increased to two tablets once daily. Coadministration of VEMLIDY with oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, or phenytoin is not recommended. Carbamazepine Indicates that a drug interaction study was conducted. P-gp inducer Oxcarbazepine Phenobarbital Phenytoin Antimycobacterials: ↓ tenofovir alafenamide Coadministration of VEMLIDY with rifabutin, rifampin or rifapentine is not recommended. Rifabutin Rifampin Rifapentine Herbal Products: ↓ tenofovir alafenamide Coadministration of VEMLIDY with St. John's wort is not recommended. St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) 7.4 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with VEMLIDY Based on drug interaction studies conducted with VEMLIDY, no clinically significant drug interactions have been observed with: ethinyl estradiol, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, midazolam, norgestimate, sertraline, sofosbuvir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir, and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir.
