Drug: teriflunomide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs metabolized by CYP2C8 and OAT3 transporters: Monitor patients because teriflunomide may increase exposure of these drugs. ( 7 ) • Teriflunomide may increase exposure of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Choose an appropriate oral contraceptive. ( 7 ) • Drugs metabolized by CYP1A2: Monitor patients because teriflunomide may decrease exposure of these drugs. ( 7 ) • Warfarin: Monitor INR as teriflunomide may decrease INR. ( 7 ) • Drugs metabolized by BCRP and OATP1B1/B3 transporters: Monitor patients because teriflunomide may increase exposure of these drugs. ( 7 ) • Rosuvastatin: The dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily in patients taking teriflunomide. ( 7 ) Effect of Teriflunomide on CYP2C8 Substrates Teriflunomide is an inhibitor of CYP2C8 in vivo . In patients taking teriflunomide, exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2C8 (e.g., paclitaxel, pioglitazone, repaglinide, rosiglitazone) may be increased. Monitor these patients and adjust the dose of the concomitant drug(s) metabolized by CYP2C8 as required [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Effect of Teriflunomide on Warfarin Coadministration of teriflunomide with warfarin requires close monitoring of the international normalized ratio (INR) because teriflunomide may decrease peak INR by approximately 25%. Effect of Teriflunomide on Oral Contraceptives Teriflunomide may increase the systemic exposures of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Consideration should be given to the type or dose of contraceptives used in combination with teriflunomide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Effect of Teriflunomide on CYP1A2 Substrates Teriflunomide may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2 in vivo . In patients taking teriflunomide, exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 (e.g., alosetron, duloxetine, theophylline, tizanidine) may be reduced. Monitor these patients and adjust the dose of the concomitant drug(s) metabolized by CYP1A2 as required [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Effect of Teriflunomide on Organic Anion Transporter 3 (OAT3) Substrates Teriflunomide inhibits the activity of OAT3 in vivo . In patients taking teriflunomide, exposure of drugs which are OAT3 substrates (e.g., cefaclor, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, penicillin G, ketoprofen, furosemide, methotrexate, zidovudine) may be increased. Monitor these patients and adjust the dose of the concomitant drug(s) which are OAT3 substrates as required [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Effect of Teriflunomide on BCRP and Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptide B1 and B3 (OATP1B1/1B3) Substrates Teriflunomide inhibits the activity of BCRP and OATP1B1/1B3 in vivo . For a patient taking teriflunomide, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. For other substrates of BCRP (e.g., mitoxantrone) and drugs in the OATP family (e.g., methotrexate, rifampin), especially HMG-Co reductase inhibitors (e.g., atorvastatin, nateglinide, pravastatin, repaglinide, and simvastatin), consider reducing the dose of these drugs and monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of increased exposures to the drugs while patients are taking teriflunomide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
