Drug: tezacaftor_and_ivacaftor

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potential for other drugs to affect tezacaftor/ivacaftor CYP3A inhibitors: Reduce SYMDEKO dosage when co-administered with strong (e.g., ketoconazole) or moderate (e.g., fluconazole) CYP3A inhibitors. Avoid food containing grapefruit. ( 2.4 , 7.2 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Inducers of CYP3A Tezacaftor and ivacaftor are substrates of CYP3A (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A). Concomitant use of CYP3A inducers may result in reduced exposures and thus reduced SYMDEKO efficacy. Co-administration of ivacaftor with rifampin, a strong CYP3A inducer, significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure (area under the curve [AUC]) by 89%. Tezacaftor exposures can also be expected to decrease significantly during co-administration with strong CYP3A inducers. Therefore, co-administration of SYMDEKO with strong CYP3A inducers is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . Examples of strong CYP3A inducers include: rifampin, rifabutin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin, and St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP3A Co-administration with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased tezacaftor exposure (AUC) by 4.0-fold and ivacaftor by 15.6-fold. When co-administered with strong CYP3A inhibitors, the dosing regimen of SYMDEKO should be adjusted [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . Examples of strong CYP3A inhibitors include: ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole telithromycin and clarithromycin Co-administration of fluconazole increased ivacaftor exposure (AUC) by 3.0-fold. Simulation suggested co-administration with fluconazole, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tezacaftor exposure (AUC) by approximately 2.0-fold. When co-administered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors, the dosing regimen of SYMDEKO should be adjusted [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . Examples of moderate CYP3A inhibitors include: fluconazole erythromycin Co-administration of SYMDEKO with grapefruit juice, which contains one or more components that moderately inhibit CYP3A, may increase exposure of tezacaftor and ivacaftor; therefore, food or drink containing grapefruit should be avoided during treatment with SYMDEKO [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . 7.3 Ciprofloxacin Co-administration of SYMDEKO with ciprofloxacin had no significant effect on the exposure of tezacaftor or ivacaftor. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is necessary during concomitant administration of SYMDEKO with ciprofloxacin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Potential for tezacaftor/ivacaftor to affect other drugs 7.4 CYP3A Substrates Co-administration of SYMDEKO with midazolam (oral), a sensitive CYP3A substrate, did not affect midazolam exposure. No dosage adjustment of CYP3A substrates is required when co-administered with SYMDEKO [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 CYP2C9 Substrates Ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C9; therefore, monitoring of the international normalized ratio (INR) during co-administration of SYMDEKO with warfarin is recommended. Other medicinal products for which exposure may be increased by SYMDEKO include glimepiride and glipizide; these medicinal products should be used with caution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.6 Digoxin and Other P-gp Substrates Co-administration of SYMDEKO with digoxin, a sensitive P-gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3-fold consistent with weak inhibition of P-gp by ivacaftor. Administration of SYMDEKO may increase systemic exposure of medicinal products that are sensitive substrates of P-gp, which may increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. When used concomitantly with digoxin or other substrates of P-gp with a narrow therapeutic index such as cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, and tacrolimus, caution and appropriate monitoring should be used [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.7 Hormonal Contraceptives SYMDEKO has been studied with an ethinyl estradiol/norethindrone oral contraceptive and was found to have no significant effect on the exposures of the hormonal contraceptive. SYMDEKO is not expected to modify the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
