Drug: theophylline

=== Drug Interactions ===
Drug Interactions: Drug-Drug Interactions : Theophylline interacts with a wide variety of drugs. The interaction may be pharmacodynamic, i.e., alterations in the therapeutic response to theophylline or another drug or occurrence of adverse effects without a change in serum theophylline concentration. More frequently, however, the interaction is pharmacokinetic, i.e., the rate of theophylline clearance is altered by another drug resulting in increased or decreased serum theophylline concentrations. Theophylline only rarely alters the pharmacokinetics of other drugs. The drugs listed in Table II have the potential to produce clinically significant pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic interactions with theophylline. The information in the “Effect” column of Table II assumes that the interacting drug is being added to a steady-state theophylline regimen. If theophylline is being initiated in a patient who is already taking a drug that inhibits theophylline clearance (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin), the dose of theophylline required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration will be smaller. Conversely, if theophylline is being initiated in a patient who is already taking a drug that enhances theophylline clearance (e.g., rifampin), the dose of theophylline required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration will be larger. Discontinuation of a concomitant drug that increases theophyllineclearance will result in accumulation of theophylline to potentially toxic levels, unless the theophylline dose is appropriately reduced. Discontinuation of a concomitant drug that inhibits theophylline clearance will result in decreased serum theophylline concentrations, unless the theophylline dose is appropriately increased. The drugs listed in Table III have either been documented not to interact with theophylline or do not produce a clinically significant interaction (i.e., <15% change in theophylline clearance). The listing of drugs in Tables II and III are current as of February 9, 1995. New interactions are continuously being reported for theophylline, especially with new chemical entities. The healthcare professional should not assume that a drug does not interact with theophylline if it is not listed in Table II. Before addition of a newly available drug in a patient receiving theophylline, the package insert of the new drug and/or the medical literature should be consulted to determine if an interaction between the new drug and theophylline has been reported. Table II. Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline.* Drug Type of Interaction Effect** Adenosine Theophylline blocks adenosinereceptors. Higher doses of adenosine may be required to achieve desired effect. Alcohol A single large dose of alcohol (3 mL/kg of whiskey) decreases theophylline clearance for up to 24 hours. 30% increase Allopurinol Decreases theophylline clearance at allopurinol doses ≥600 mg/day. 25% increase Aminoglutethimide Increases theophylline clearance by induction of microsomal enzyme activity. 25% decrease Carbamazepine Similar to aminoglutethimide. 30% decrease Cimetidine Decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting cytochrome P450 1A2. 70% increase Ciprofloxacin Similar to cimetidine. 40% increase Clarithromycin Similar to erythromycin. 25% increase Diazepam Benzodiazepines increase CNS concentrations of adenosine, a potent CNS depressant, while theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. Larger diazepam doses may be required to produce desired level of sedation. Discontinuation of theophylline without reduction of diazepam dose may result in respiratory depression. Disulfiram Decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting hydroxylation and demethylation. 50% increase Enoxacin Similar to cimetidine. 300% increase Ephedrine Synergistic CNS effects. Increased frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Erythromycin Erythromycin metabolite decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting cytochrome P450 3A3. 35% increase. Erythromycin steady-state serum concentrations decrease by a similar amount. Estrogen Estrogen containing oral contraceptives decrease theophylline clearance in a dose-dependent fashion. The effect of progesterone on theophylline clearance is unknown. 30% increase Flurazepam Similar to diazepam. Similar to diazepam. Fluvoxamine Similar to cimetidine. Similar to cimetidine. Halothane Halothane sensitizes the myocardium to catecholamines, theophylline increases release of endogenous catecholamines. Increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Interferon, human recombinant alpha-A Decreases theophylline clearance. 100% increase Isoproterenol (IV) Increases theophylline clearance. 20% decrease Ketamine Pharmacologic. May lower theophylline seizure threshold Lithium Theophylline increases renal lithium clearance. Lithium dose required to achieve a therapeutic serum concentration increased an average of 60%. Lorazepam Similar to diazepam. Similar to diazepam. Methotrexate (MTX) Decreases theophylline clearance. 20% increase after low dose MTX, higher dose MTX may have a greater effect. Mexiletine Similar to disulfiram. 80% increase Midazolam Similar to diazepam. Similar to diazepam. Moricizine Increases theophylline clearance. 25% decrease Pancuronium Theophylline may antagonize non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking effects; possibly due to phosphodiesterase inhibition. Larger dose of pancuronium may be required to achieve neuromuscular blockade. Pentoxifylline Decreases theophylline clearance. 30% increase Phenobarbital (PB) Similar to aminoglutethimide. 25% decrease after two weeks of concurrent PB. Phenytoin Phenytoin increases theophylline clearance by increasing microsomal enzyme activity. Theophylline decreases phenytoin absorption. Serum theophylline and phenytoin concentrations decrease about 40%. Propafenone Decreases theophylline clearance and pharmacologic interaction. 40% increase. Beta-2 blocking effect may decrease efficacy of theophylline. Propranolol Similar to cimetidine and pharmacologic interaction. 100% increase. Beta-2 blocking effect may decrease efficacy of theophylline. Rifampin Increases theophylline clearance by increasing cytochrome P450 1A2 and 3A3 activity. 20-40% decrease St. John’s Wort (Hypericum Perforatum) Decrease in theophylline plasma concentrations. Higher doses of theophylline may be required to achieve desired effect. Stopping St. John’s Wort may result in theophylline toxicity. Sulfinpyrazone Increase theophylline clearance by increasing demethylation and hydroxylation. Decreases renal clearance of theophylline. 20% decrease Tacrine Similar to cimetidine, also increases renal clearance of theophylline. 90% increase Thiabendazole Decreases theophylline clearance. 190% increase Ticlopidine Decreases theophylline clearance. 60% increase Troleandomycin Similar to erythromycin. 33-100% increase depending on troleandomycin dose. Verapamil Similar to disulfiram. 20% increase * Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for further information regarding table. ** Average effect on steady-state theophylline concentration or other clinical effect for pharmacologic interactions. Individual patients may experience larger changes in serum theophylline concentration than the value listed. Table III. Drugs that have been documented not to interact with theophylline or drugs that produce no clinically significant interaction with theophylline.* albuterol, systemic and inhaled mebendazole amoxicillin medroxyprogesterone ampicillin, with or without methylprednisolone sulbactam metronidazole atenolol metoprolol azithromycin nadolol caffeine, dietary ingestion nifedipine cefaclor nizatidine co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) norfloxacin ofloxacin diltiazem omeprazole dirithromycin prednisone, prednisolone enflurane ranitidine famotidine rifabutin felodipine roxithromycin finasteride Sorbitol (purgative doses do not inhibit theophylline absorption) hydrocortisone isoflurane sucralfate isoniazid terbutaline, systemic isradipine terfenadine influenza vaccine tetracycline ketoconazole tocainide lomefloxacin * Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for information regarding table. Drug-Food Interactions : Taking theophylline extended-release tablets immediately after ingesting a high fat content meal (45 g fat, 55 g carbohydrates, 28 g protein, 789 calories) may result in a somewhat higher Cmax and delayed Tmax and a somewhat greater extent of absorption when compared to taking it in the fasting state. The influence of the type and amount of other foods, as well as the time interval between drug and food, has not been studied. The Effect of Other Drugs on Theophylline Serum Concentration Measurements: Most serum theophylline assays in clinical use are immunoassays which are specific for theophylline. Other xanthines such as caffeine, dyphylline, and pentoxifylline are not detected by these assays. Some drugs (e.g.,cefazolin, cephalothin), however, may interfere with certain HPLC techniques. Caffeine and xanthine metabolites in neonates or patients with renal dysfunction may cause the reading from some dry reagent office methods to be higher than the actual serum theophylline concentration.
