Drug: ticagrelor

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid use with strong CYP3A inhibitors or CYP3A inducers. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) Opioids: Decreased exposure to ticagrelor. Consider use of parenteral anti-platelet agent. ( 7.3 ) Patients receiving more than 40 mg per day of simvastatin or lovastatin may be at increased risk of statin-related adverse effects. ( 7.4 ) Rosuvastatin plasma concentrations may increase. Monitor for statin-related adverse effects. ( 7.4 ) Monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or any change in ticagrelor. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Strong CYP3A inhibitors substantially increase ticagrelor exposure and so increase the risk of dyspnea, bleeding, and other adverse events. Avoid use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, atazanavir and telithromycin) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Strong CYP3A Inducers Strong CYP3A inducers substantially reduce ticagrelor exposure and so decrease the efficacy of ticagrelor. Avoid use with strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g., rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider the use of a parenteral anti-platelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring co-administration of morphine or other opioid agonists. 7.4 Simvastatin, Lovastatin, Rosuvastatin Ticagrelor increases serum concentrations of simvastatin and lovastatin because these drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Avoid simvastatin and lovastatin doses greater than 40 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Ticagrelor increases serum concentration of rosuvastatin because rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in ticagrelor therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
