Drug: tizanidine_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors: avoid concomitant use; may cause hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness; if concomitant use is necessary and adverse reactions occur, reduce Ontralfy dosage or discontinue. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of Ontralfy with strong cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Moderate or Weak CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of Ontralfy with moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., zileuton, antiarrhythmics [amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil], cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If concomitant use is clinically necessary, and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce Ontralfy dosage or discontinue Ontralfy therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of Ontralfy with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue Ontralfy therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.4 Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants Alcohol increases the exposure of tizanidine after administration of Ontralfy. This was associated with an increase in adverse reactions of tizanidine. Concomitant use of Ontralfy with CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may cause additive CNS depressant effects, including sedation. Monitor patients who take Ontralfy with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 α2-Adrenergic Agonists Concomitant use of Ontralfy with other α2-adrenergic agonists is not recommended because hypotensive effects may be cumulative [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.6 Antihypertensive Medications Concomitant use of Ontralfy with antihypertensive medications may cause additive hypotensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Monitor patients who take Ontralfy with antihypertensive medications for hypotension.
