Drug: topiramate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Contraceptives: decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding, especially at doses greater than 200 mg/day ( 7.4 ) Monitor lithium levels if lithium is used with high-dose topiramate ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiepileptic Drugs Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate resulted in a clinically significant decrease in plasma concentrations of topiramate when compared to topiramate given alone. A dosage adjustment may be needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant administration of valproic acid and topiramate has been associated with hypothermia and hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy. Examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 , 5.14 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Concomitant use of topiramate, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, with any other carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (e.g., zonisamide or acetazolamide) may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis and may also increase the risk of kidney stone formation. Therefore, patients given topiramate concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor should be monitored particularly closely for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 CNS Depressants Concomitant administration of topiramate and alcohol or other CNS depressant drugs has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Because of the potential of topiramate to cause CNS depression, as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions, topiramate should be used with extreme caution if used in combination with alcohol and other CNS depressants. 7.4 Contraceptives The possibility of decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding may occur in patients taking contraceptive products with topiramate. Patients taking estrogen-containing or progestin-only contraceptives should be asked to report any change in their bleeding patterns. Contraceptive efficacy can be decreased even in the absence of breakthrough bleeding [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.5 Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) Topiramate C max and AUC increased when HCTZ was added to topiramate. The clinical significance of this change is unknown. The addition of HCTZ to topiramate may require a decrease in the topiramate dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Pioglitazone A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with the concurrent use of pioglitazone and topiramate in a clinical trial. The clinical relevance of these observations is unknown; however, when topiramate is added to pioglitazone therapy or pioglitazone is added to topiramate therapy, careful attention should be given to the routine monitoring of patients for adequate control of their diabetic disease state [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.7 Lithium An increase in systemic exposure of lithium following topiramate doses of up to 600 mg/day can occur. Lithium levels should be monitored when coadministered with high-dose topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.8 Amitriptyline Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate and any adjustments in amitriptyline dose should be made according to the patient's clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
