Drug: torsemide

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects; risk of renal impairment. (7.1) • CYP2C9: Concomitant use with CYP2C9 inhibitors can decrease torsemide clearance. Torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range, such as warfarin or phenytoin. (7.2) • Cholestyramine: Decreased exposure of torsemide. (7.3) • Organic anion drugs: may decrease diuretic activity of torsemide. (7.4) • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity (7.5) • Renin-angiotensin inhibitors: Increased risk of hypotension and renal impairment. (7.7) • Radiocontrast agents: Increased risk of renal toxicity. (7.8) • Corticosteroids and ACTH: Increased risk of hypokalemia. (7.9) 7.1 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs Because torsemide and salicylates compete for secretion by renal tubules, patients receiving high doses of salicylates may experience salicylate toxicity when torsemide is concomitantly administered. Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and torsemide has been associated with the development of acute renal failure. The antihypertensive and diuretic effects of torsemide can be reduced by NSAIDs. Partial inhibition of the natriuretic effect of torsemide by concomitant administration of indomethacin has been demonstrated for torsemide under conditions of dietary sodium restriction (50 mEq/day) but not in the presence of normal sodium intake (150 mEq/day). 7.2 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Inhibitors and Inducers Torsemide is a substrate of CYP2C9. Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., amiodarone, fluconazole, miconazole, oxandrolone) can decrease torsemide clearance and increase torsemide plasma concentrations. Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) increase torsemide clearance and decrease plasma torsemide concentrations. Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure when used in combination with CYP2C9 inhibitor or inducer. Adjust torsemide dose if necessary. Because of its inhibition of CYP2C9 metabolism, torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates, such as celecoxib, or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range, such as warfarin or phenytoin. Monitor patients and adjust dosages if necessary. 7.3 Cholestyramine Concomitant use of torsemide and cholestyramine has not been studied in humans but, in a study in animals, coadministration of cholestyramine decreased the absorption of orally administered torsemide. If torsemide and cholestyramine should be coadministered, administer torsemide at least one hour before or 4 to 6 h after cholestyramine administration. 7.4 Organic Anion Drugs Coadministration of organic anion drugs (e.g., probenecid) that undergo significant renal tubular secretion have the potential to reduce secretion of torsemide into the proximal tubule and thereby decreases the diuretic activity of torsemide. Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure during coadministration. 7.5 Lithium Like other diuretics, torsemide reduces the renal clearance of lithium, inducing a high risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when torsemide is coadministered. 7.6 Ototoxic Drugs Loop diuretics increase the ototoxic potential of other ototoxic drugs, including aminoglycoside antibiotics and ethacrynic acid. This effect has been reported with concomitant use of torsemide and gentamycin. Avoid concomitant use of torsemide and aminoglycoside antibiotics, if possible. 7.7 Renin-angiotensin Inhibitors Coadministration of torsemide with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers can increase the risk of hypotension and renal impairment. 7.8 Radiocontrast Agents Torsemide can increase the risk of renal toxicity related to administration of radiocontrast agents. 7.9 Corticosteroids and ACTH Concomitant use with torsemide may increase risk of hypokalemia
