Drug: tovorafenib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate and Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors : Avoid coadministration with OJEMDA. ( 7.1 ). Moderate and Strong CYP2C8 Inducers : Avoid coadministration with OJEMDA. ( 7.1 ). Certain CYP3A Substrates : Avoid coadministration of OJEMDA with CYP3A substrates where minimal concentration changes can cause reduced efficacy. ( 7.2 ). Hormonal contraceptives : Avoid coadministration with OJEMDA. ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on OJEMDA Table 8 describes drug interactions where coadministration with another drug affects OJEMDA. Table 8 Coadministration with Other Drugs that Affect the Use of OJEMDA Strong or Moderate CYP2C8 Inhibitors Prevention or Management Avoid coadministration of OJEMDA with a strong or moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate. Strong or moderate CYP2C8 inhibitors are predicted to increase tovorafenib exposure based on a mechanistic understanding of its elimination [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which may increase the risk of adverse reactions with OJEMDA. Strong or Moderate CYP2C8 Inducers Prevention or Management Avoid coadministration of OJEMDA with a strong or moderate CYP2C8 inducer. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate. Strong or moderate CYP2C8 inducers are predicted to decrease tovorafenib exposure based on a mechanistic understanding of its elimination [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which may reduce the effectiveness of OJEMDA. 7.2 Effects of OJEMDA on Other Drugs Table 9 describes drug interactions where coadministration with OJEMDA affects another drug. Table 9 Coadministration with OJEMDA that Affects the Use of Other Drugs CYP3A Substrates Prevention or Management Hormonal Contraceptives : Avoid coadministration of hormonal contraceptives with OJEMDA. If coadministration is unavoidable, use an additional effective nonhormonal contraceptive method during coadministration and for 28 days after discontinuation of OJEMDA. Other CYP3A Substrates: Avoid coadministration of OJEMDA with certain CYP3A substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious therapeutic failures. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of efficacy unless otherwise recommended in the Prescribing Information for CYP3A substrates. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Tovorafenib is predicted to decrease exposure of certain CYP3A substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious therapeutic failures [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which may reduce the effectiveness of these substrates. Coadministration with hormonal contraceptives (CYP3A substrate) may decrease progestin-x and ethinyl estradiol exposure, which may lead to contraceptive failure and/or an increase in breakthrough bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ].
