Drug: trazodone_hydrochloride_oral

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Depressants: RALDESY may enhance effects of alcohol, barbiturates, or other CNS depressants ( 7 ). CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Consider RALDESY dose reduction based on tolerability ( 2.5 , 7 ). CYP3A4 Inducers: Increase in RALDESY dosage may be necessary ( 2.5 , 7 ). Digoxin or Phenytoin: Monitor for increased digoxin or phenytoin serum levels ( 7 ). Warfarin: Monitor for increased or decreased prothrombin time ( 7 ). Table 3 displays clinically significant drug Interactions with RALDESY. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with RALDESY Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of MAOIs and serotonergic drugs including RALDESY increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: RALDESY is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Contraindications (4) , Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs, including RALDESY and other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during RALDESY initiation. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of RALDESY and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Antiplatelet Agents and Anticoagulants Clinical Impact: Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with RALDESY may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding with the concomitant use of RALDESY and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when initiating or discontinuing RALDESY [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of RALDESY and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of RALDESY alone. Intervention: If RALDESY is used with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, the risk of adverse reactions, including cardiac arrhythmias, may be increased and a lower dose of RALDESY should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of RALDESY and strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of RALDESY alone. Intervention: Patients should be closely monitored to see if there is a need for an increased dose of RALDESY when taking CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Digoxin and Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Digoxin and phenytoin are narrow therapeutic index drugs. Concomitant use of RALDESY can increase digoxin or phenytoin concentrations. Intervention: Measure serum digoxin or phenytoin concentrations before initiating concomitant use of RALDESY. Continue monitoring and reduce digoxin or phenytoin dose as necessary. Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: RALDESY may enhance the response CNS depressants. Intervention: Patients should be counseled that RALDESY may enhance the response to alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. QT Interval Prolongation Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval may add to the QT effects of RALDESY and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Intervention: Avoid the use of RALDESY in combination with other drugs known to prolong QTc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] .
