Drug: triamcinolone_acetonide_extended-release_injectable_suspension

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with ZILRETTA. Table 3 contains drug interactions associated with systemic corticosteroids. Table 3: Drug Interactions Associated with Systemic Corticosteroids Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), observe patients closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, withdraw anticholinesterase agents at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, monitor coagulation indices frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. CYP 3A4 inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of corticosteroid be increased. CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) Ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to allergy related skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, defer routine administration of vaccines or toxoids until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued.
