Drug: tucatinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A Inducers or Moderate CYP2C8 Inducers : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use; reduce TUKYSA dose if concomitant use cannot be avoided. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) • CYP3A Substrates : Avoid concomitant use with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. ( 7.2 ) • P-gp Substrates : Consider reducing the dose of P-gp substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on TUKYSA Table 7 summarizes the effect of other drugs on TUKYSA. Table 7: Drug Interactions that Affect TUKYSA Strong CYP3A Inducers or Moderate CYP2C8 Inducers Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TUKYSA with a strong CYP3A or moderate CYP2C8 inducer decreased tucatinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce TUKYSA activity. Management Avoid concomitant use of TUKYSA with a strong CYP3A inducer or a moderate CYP2C8 inducer. Strong or Moderate CYP2C8 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TUKYSA with a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor increased tucatinib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of TUKYSA toxicity. Management Avoid concomitant use of TUKYSA with a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Increase monitoring for TUKYSA toxicity with moderate CYP2C8 inhibitors. 7.2 Effects of TUKYSA on Other Drugs Table 8 summarizes the effect of TUKYSA on other drugs. Table 8: TUKYSA Drug Interactions that Affect Other Drugs CYP3A Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TUKYSA with a CYP3A substrate increased the plasma concentrations of CYP3A substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the toxicity associated with a CYP3A substrate. Management Avoid concomitant use of TUKYSA with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease the CYP3A substrate dosage in accordance with approved product labeling. P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TUKYSA with a P-gp substrate increased the plasma concentrations of P-gp substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the toxicity associated with a P-gp substrate. Management Consider reducing the dosage of P-gp substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities.
