Drug: ulipristal_acetate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Several in vivo drug interaction studies have shown that ella is predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs or herbal products that induce CYP3A4 decrease the effectiveness of ella . ( 7.1 ) Initiation of progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ella to delay ovulation. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Changes in Emergency Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co-Administration of Other Products CYP3A inducers Drugs or herbal products that induce CYP3A4 decrease the plasma concentrations of ella , and may decrease its effectiveness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid co-administration of ella and drugs or herbal products such as: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's Wort topiramate Hormonal contraceptives Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ella to delay ovulation. After using ella , if a woman wishes to initiate or resume hormonal contraception, she can do so, no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ella and she should use a reliable barrier method until the next menstrual period. If a woman used ella due to a known or suspected failure of her hormonal contraception refer to the hormonal contraceptive’s prescribing information for instructions on what to do [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.2 Increase in Plasma Concentrations of ella Associated with Co-Administered Drugs CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole increase plasma concentrations of ella [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . 7.3 Effects of ella on Co-Administered Drugs Hormonal contraceptives: ella may impact the effect of the progestin component of hormonal contraceptives. Therefore, if a woman wishes to use hormonal contraception after using ella , she should use a reliable barrier method for subsequent acts of intercourse until her next menstrual period [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] .
