Drug: umeclidinium_bromide_and_vilanterol_trifenatate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole): Use with caution. May cause cardiovascular effects. ( 7.1 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of vilanterol on cardiovascular system. ( 7.2 ) • Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. ( 7.3 ) • Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. ( 7.4 ) • Anticholinergics: May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Avoid administration of ANORO ELLIPTA with other anticholinergic-containing drugs. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole increases the systemic exposure to vilanterol. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of ANORO ELLIPTA with ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors, Tricyclic Antidepressants, and QTc Prolonging Drugs Vilanterol, like other beta 2 -agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, or drugs known to prolong the QTc interval or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. 7.3 Beta-adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as vilanterol, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with COPD. Therefore, patients with COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with non–potassium-sparing diuretics. 7.5 Anticholinergics There is potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medicines. Therefore, avoid coadministration of ANORO ELLIPTA with other anticholinergic-containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 , 5.10 )] .
