Drug: ustekinumab-aekn

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Concomitant Therapies In trials in subjects with plaque psoriasis the safety of ustekinumab products in combination with immunosuppressive agents or phototherapy has not been evaluated. In trials in subjects with psoriatic arthritis, concomitant MTX use did not appear to influence the safety or efficacy of ustekinumab. In trials in subjects with Crohn’s disease (CD-1 and CD-2) and ulcerative colitis (UC-1), immunomodulators (6-MP, AZA, MTX) were used concomitantly in approximately 30% of subjects and corticosteroids were used concomitantly in approximately 40% and 50% of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis subjects, respectively. Use of these concomitant therapies did not appear to influence the overall safety or efficacy of ustekinumab. 7.2 CYP450 Substrates The formation of CYP450 enzymes can be suppressed by increased levels of certain cytokines (e.g., IL-1, IL-6, TNFα, IFN) during chronic inflammation. Thus, use of ustekinumab products, antagonists of IL-12 and IL-23, could normalize the formation of CYP450 enzymes. Upon initiation or discontinuation of SELARSDI in patients who are receiving concomitant CYP450 substrates, particularly those with a narrow therapeutic index, consider monitoring for therapeutic effect or drug concentration and adjust the individual dosage of the CYP substrate as needed. See the prescribing information of specific CYP substrates . A CYP-mediated drug interaction effect was not observed in subjects with Crohn’s disease [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Allergen Immunotherapy Ustekinumab products have not been evaluated in patients who have undergone allergy immunotherapy. Ustekinumab products may decrease the protective effect of allergen immunotherapy (decrease tolerance) which may increase the risk of an allergic reaction to a dose of allergen immunotherapy. Therefore, caution should be exercised in patients receiving or who have received allergen immunotherapy, particularly for anaphylaxis.
