Drug: vadadustat

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Iron supplements and iron-containing phosphate binders: Administer VAFSEO at least 1 hour before products containing iron. ( 7.1 ) Non-iron-containing phosphate binders: Administer VAFSEO at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after non-iron-containing phosphate binders. ( 7.1 ) BCRP substrates: Monitor for signs of substrate adverse reactions and consider substrate dose reduction. ( 7.2 ) Statins: Monitor for statin-related adverse reactions ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on VAFSEO Table 3 describes clinically significant drug interactions where concomitant use of another drug affects VAFSEO. Table 3 Drug Interactions with VAFSEO that Affect Vadadustat Exposure Iron supplements and phosphate binders Clinical Effect Co-administration with oral iron supplements, products containing iron, or phosphate binders decreases the exposure of vadadustat [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce the effectiveness of VAFSEO. Prevention or Management Stagger administration when VAFSEO is used with oral iron supplements, products containing iron, iron-containing phosphate binders, or non-iron-containing phosphate binders [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Examples * Iron supplements : ferric citrate, ferrous sulfate, sodium ferrous citrate Iron-containing phosphate binders : ferric citrate, sucroferric oxyhydroxide Non-iron-containing phosphate binders : calcium acetate, sevelamer carbonate Organic anion transporter (OAT) OAT1/OAT3 inhibitors Clinical Effect Co-administration with OAT1/OAT3 (Organic Anion Transporter) inhibitors may increase the area under the concentration curve (AUC) of vadadustat [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of VAFSEO adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Closely monitor for too large or too rapid an increase in Hb response and for adverse reactions. Examples * OAT1 inhibitors: probenecid, rifampicin OAT3 inhibitors: gemfibrozil, probenecid, teriflunomide * These examples are not a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may fit this category. 7.2 Effect of VAFSEO on Other Drugs Table 4 describes clinically significant drug interactions where VAFSEO affects the co-administered drug. Table 4 Drug Interactions with VAFSEO that affect co-administered drugs BCRP substrates Clinical Effect Vadadustat may increase the exposure of BCRP substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to the BCRP substrate. Prevention or Management Monitor for signs of adverse effects of the co-administered BCRP substrate and reduce substrates’ dosage in accordance with their approved product labeling, if needed. Example * sulfasalazine Statins Clinical Effect Vadadustat increases the maximal concentration (C max ) and AUC of some statins when co-administered [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Prevention or Management Monitor for possible statin-related adverse reactions. Concomitant Drug Name Recommendation Simvastatin Starting dose of simvastatin should be 5 mg/day. Maximum daily dose of simvastatin not to exceed 20 mg. Rosuvastatin Maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin not to exceed 5 mg. OAT3 substrates Clinical Effect Vadadustat may increase the exposure of co-administered OAT3 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Prevention or Management Monitor for signs of adverse reactions of the co-administered OAT3 substrates and adjust substrates’ dosage in accordance with their approved product labeling, if needed. Examples * cefaclor, ceftizoxime, famotidine, furosemide, oseltamivir carboxylate, penicillin G, sitagliptin * These examples are not a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may fit this category.
