Drug: valganciclovir_hydrochloride_powder,

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted with valganciclovir. However, because valganciclovir is rapidly and extensively converted to ganciclovir, drug-drug interactions associated with ganciclovir will be expected for valganciclovir hydrochloride. Drug-drug interaction studies with ganciclovir were conducted in patients with normal renal function. Following concomitant administration of valganciclovir hydrochloride and other renally excreted drugs, patients with impaired renal function may have increased concentrations of ganciclovir and the coadministered drug. Therefore, these patients should be closely monitored for toxicity of ganciclovir and the coadministered drug. Established and other potentially significant drug interactions conducted with ganciclovir are listed in Table 9. Table 9 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions with Ganciclovir Name of the Concomitant Drug Change in the Concentration of Ganciclovir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Imipenem-cilastatin Unknown Coadministration with imipenem-cilastatin is not recommended because generalized seizures have been reported in patients who received ganciclovir and imipenem-cilastatin. Cyclosporine or amphotericin B Unknown Monitor renal function when valganciclovir hydrochloride is coadministered with cyclosporine or amphotericin B because of potential increase in serum creatinine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) ↔ Ganciclovir (in patients with normal renal function) ↔ MMF (in patients with normal renal function) Based on increased risk, patients should be monitored for hematological and renal toxicity. Other drugs associated with myelosuppression or nephrotoxicity (e.g., adriamycin, dapsone, doxorubicin, flucytosine, hydroxyurea, pentamidine, tacrolimus, trimethoprim/ sulfamethoxazole, vinblastine, vincristine, and zidovudine) Unknown Because of potential for higher toxicity, coadministration with valganciclovir hydrochloride should be considered only if the potential benefits are judged to outweigh the risks. Didanosine ↔ Ganciclovir ↑ Didanosine Patients should be closely monitored for didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis) Probenecid ↑ Ganciclovir Valganciclovir hydrochloride dose may need to be reduced. Monitor for evidence of ganciclovir toxicity. Imipenem-cilastatin: Seizures were reported in patients receiving ganciclovir and imipenem-cilastatin. Concomitant use is not recommended unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks. (7) Cyclosporine or amphotericin B: When coadministered with valganciclovir, the risk of nephrotoxicity may be increased. Monitor renal function. ( 5.2 , 7 ) Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): When coadministered with valganciclovir, the risk of hematological and renal toxicity may be increased. Monitor for ganciclovir and MMF toxicity. (7 ) Other drugs associated with myelosuppression or nephrotoxicity: Due to potential for increased toxicity, consider for concomitant use with valganciclovir only if the potential benefits are judged to outweigh the risks. (7 ) Didanosine: Ganciclovir coadministered with didanosine may increase didanosine levels. Monitor for didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis). ( 7 ) Probenecid: May increase ganciclovir levels. Monitor for evidence of ganciclovir toxicity. ( 7)
