Drug: valoctocogene_roxaparvovec-rvox

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Prior to ROCTAVIAN administration, the patient's existing medications should be reviewed to determine if they should be modified to prevent anticipated interactions described in this section. Concomitant medications should be monitored after ROCTAVIAN administration, and the need to change concomitant medications based on patient's hepatic status and risk should be evaluated. When a new medication is started, close monitoring of ALT and factor VIII activity levels (e.g., weekly to every 2 weeks for the first month) is recommended to assess potential effects on both levels. No in vivo interaction studies have been performed. 7.1 Isotretinoin In one patient, decreased factor VIII activity without ALT elevation was detected after starting treatment with systemic isotretinoin following ROCTAVIAN infusion. Factor VIII activity was 75 IU/dL at Week 60 and transiently decreased to < 3 IU/dL at Week 64, after initiating isotretinoin. After discontinuing isotretinoin at Week 72, factor VIII activity recovered to 46 IU/dL at Week 122. An in vitro study in human primary hepatocytes indicated that isotretinoin suppressed factor VIII transcription independent of hepatotoxicity, without impact on ALT, and expression was partially restored upon cessation of isotretinoin treatment. Isotretinoin is not recommended in patients who are benefiting from ROCTAVIAN. 7.2 Efavirenz One HIV positive patient treated with ROCTAVIAN at a dose of 4 × 10 13 vg/kg ROCTAVIAN while on an antiretroviral therapy regimen consisting of efavirenz, lamivudine, and tenofovir experienced asymptomatic elevations of ALT, AST, and GGT (> 5.0 × ULN) and serum bilirubin (> ULN and up to 1.5 × ULN) at Week 4 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . The reaction resolved after the antiretroviral therapy regimen was changed to a regimen without efavirenz. The patient later reverted to prophylactic use of factor VIII concentrates. An in vitro study in human primary hepatocytes indicated that efavirenz suppressed factor VIII transcription independent of hepatotoxicity, and expression was not restored upon discontinuation of efavirenz. Efavirenz is not recommended in patients treated with ROCTAVIAN. 7.3 Interactions with Agents that May Reduce or Increase Plasma Concentrations of Corticosteroids Agents that may reduce or increase the plasma concentration of corticosteroids (e.g., agents that induce or inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4) can decrease the efficacy of the corticosteroid regimen or increase their side effects [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 7.4 Vaccinations Prior to ROCTAVIAN infusion, ensure up to date vaccinations. Individual vaccination schedules may need to be adjusted to accommodate concomitant immunosuppressive therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Live vaccines should not be administered to patients while on immunosuppressive therapy.
