Drug: vanzacaftor,_tezacaftor,_and_deutivacaftor

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers : Concomitant use with ALYFTREK is not recommended. ( 5.5 , 7.1 ) Strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors : Reduce ALYFTREK dosage with concomitant use. Avoid food or drink containing grapefruit. ( 2.3 , 5.6 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs and Grapefruit on ALYFTREK Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of ALYFTREK with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended. Vanzacaftor, tezacaftor, and deutivacaftor are substrates of CYP3A. Concomitant use of ALYFTREK with a strong or moderate CYP3A inducer decreases vanzacaftor, tezacaftor, and deutivacaftor exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may reduce ALYFTREK effectiveness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Reduce the ALYFTREK dosage when used concomitantly with a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Vanzacaftor, tezacaftor, and deutivacaftor are CYP3A substrates. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increases vanzacaftor, tezacaftor, and deutivacaftor exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of ALYFTREK adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase vanzacaftor, tezacaftor, and deutivacaftor exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of ALYFTREK adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Grapefruit Food or drink containing grapefruit should be avoided during treatment with ALYFTREK. Concomitant use of ALYFTREK with grapefruit juice which contains one or more components that moderately inhibit CYP3A may increase exposure of vanzacaftor, tezacaftor and deutivacaftor. 7.2 Effect of ALYFTREK on Other Drugs P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates Unless otherwise recommended in the P-gp substrate Prescribing Information, monitor more frequently for adverse reactions with concomitant use of ALYFTREK with P-gp substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions related to P-gp substrates. Tezacaftor and deutivacaftor (components of ALYFTREK) are P-gp inhibitors. Administration of tezacaftor/ivacaftor increases exposure of P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) Substrates Unless otherwise recommended in BCRP substrate Prescribing Information, monitor more frequently for adverse reactions with concomitant use of ALYFTREK with BCRP substrate where minimal concentrations may lead to serious adverse reactions related to BCRP substrates. Vanzacaftor (VNZ) and deutivacaftor (D-IVA) (components of ALYFTREK) are inhibitors of BCRP in vitro. Concomitant use of ALYFTREK with BCRP substrates may increase exposure of these substrates; however, this has not been studied clinically [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP2C9 Substrates Use caution when ALYFTREK is used concomitantly with CYP2C9 substrates. Monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) more frequently with concomitant use of ALYFTREK with warfarin. This recommendation is based upon a mechanistic understanding of deutivacaftor pharmacokinetics (it is an inhibitor of CYP2C9 in vitro) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant use of ALYFTREK with CYP2C9 substrates may increase exposure of these substrates; however, this has not been studied clinically. 7.3 Drugs with No Clinically Significant Interactions with ALYFTREK Ciprofloxacin No clinically relevant effect on the exposure of tezacaftor was observed when tezacaftor/ivacaftor was used concomitantly with ciprofloxacin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Hormonal Contraceptives No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol/norethindrone containing hormonal contraceptives were observed when used concomitantly with tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor and ivacaftor alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol/norethindrone containing hormonal contraceptives are expected when used in combination with ALYFTREK based upon a mechanistic understanding of vanzacaftor, tezacaftor, and deutivacaftor pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] ; however, this has not been studied clinically. A role for hormonal contraceptives contributing to rash cannot be excluded [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . For patients with CF taking hormonal contraceptives who develop rash, consider interrupting ALYFTREK and hormonal contraceptives. Following the resolution of rash, consider resuming ALYFTREK without the hormonal contraceptives. If rash does not recur, resumption of hormonal contraceptives can be considered.
