Drug: vasopressin_in_0.9%_sodium_chloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Pressor effects of catecholamines and Vasopressin in Sodium Chloride Injection are expected to be additive. ( 7.1 ) • Indomethacin may prolong effects of Vasopressin in Sodium Chloride Injection. ( 7.2 ) • Co-administration of ganglionic blockers or drugs causing SIADH (syndrome of inappropriate antiduretic hormone secretion) may increase the pressor response. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) • Co-administration of drugs causing diabetes insipidus may decrease the pressor response. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Catecholamines Use with catecholamines is expected to result in an additive effect on mean arterial blood pressure and other hemodynamic parameters. Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed. 7.2 Indomethacin Use with indomethacin may prolong the effect of Vasopressin in Sodium Chloride Injection on cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance. Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Ganglionic Blocking Agents Use with ganglionic blocking agents may increase the effect of Vasopressin in Sodium Chloride Injection on mean arterial blood pressure. Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Drugs Suspected of Causing SIADH Use with drugs suspected of causing SIADH (e.g., SSRIs, tricyclic antidepressants, haloperidol, chlorpropamide, enalapril, methyldopa, pentamidine, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, felbamate) may increase the pressor effect in addition to the antidiuretic effect of Vasopressin in Sodium Chloride Injection. Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed. 7.5 Drugs Suspected of Causing Diabetes Insipidus Use with drugs suspected of causing diabetes insipidus (e.g., demeclocycline, lithium, foscarnet, clozapine) may decrease the pressor effect in addition to the antidiuretic effect of Vasopressin in Sodium Chloride Injection. Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed.
