Drug: venlafaxine_hcl_er

=== Drug Interactions ===
7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Table 15: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SNRIs, including venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, with MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.11), CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)] Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.11) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug may potentiate the risk of bleeding. This may be due to the effect of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules on the release of serotonin by platelets. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is initiated or discontinued [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.4)]. Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the Cmax and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)], which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules Intervention Consider reducing the dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases Cmax and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Intervention Consider reduction in dose of concomitant CYP2D6 substrates. 7.2 Other Drug Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Central Nervous System (CNS)-Active Drugs The risk of using venlafaxine concomitantly with other CNS-active drugs (including alcohol) has not been systematically evaluated. Consequently, caution is advised when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are taken concomitantly in combination with other CNS-active drugs. Weight Loss Agents Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and weight loss agents is not recommended. The safety and efficacy of venlafaxine therapy in combination with weight loss agents, including phentermine, have not been established. Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are not indicated for weight loss alone or in combination with other products. Laboratory Test Interference False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking venlafaxine due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of venlafaxine therapy. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish venlafaxine from PCP and amphetamine.
