Drug: viloxazine_hydrochloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate sensitive CYP1A2 substrates : Not recommended for coadministration with Qelbree. Dose reduction may be warranted ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Qelbree Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Qelbree Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of Qelbree with an MAOI may lead to a potentially life-threatening hypertensive crisis. Intervention Concomitant use of Qelbree with an MAOI or within 2 weeks after discontinuing an MAOI is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Sensitive CYP1A2 Substrates or CYP1A2 Substrates with a Narrow Therapeutic Range Clinical Impact Viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use of viloxazine significantly increases the total exposure, but not peak exposure, of sensitive CYP1A2 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with these CYP1A2 substrates. Intervention Coadministration with Qelbree is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Moderate Sensitive CYP1A2 Substrate Clinical Impact Viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use of viloxazine significantly increases the total, but not peak, exposure of sensitive CYP1A2 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with these CYP1A2 substrates. Intervention Not recommended for coadministration with Qelbree. Dose reduction may be warranted if coadministered. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Viloxazine is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6, and increases the exposure of CYP2D6 substrates when coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Monitor patients for adverse reactions and adjust dosages of CYP2D6 substrates, as clinically indicated. CYP3A4 Substrates Clinical Impact Viloxazine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 which increases the exposure of CYP3A4 substrates when coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Monitor patients for adverse reactions and adjust dosages of CYP3A4 substrates, as clinically indicated.
