Drug: vimseltinib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates : Avoid concomitant use of ROMVIMZA with P-gp substrates. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, take ROMVIMZA at least 4 hours prior to P-gp substrates. Concomitant use of vimseltinib with P-gp substrates may increase exposure of these substrates. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) substrates : Avoid concomitant use of ROMVIMZA with BCRP substrates. Concomitant use of vimseltinib with BCRP substrates may increase exposure of these substrates. ( 7.1 ) Organic Cation Transporter 2 (OCT) substrates : Avoid concomitant use of ROMVIMZA with OCT2 substrates. Concomitant use of vimseltinib with OCT2 substrates may increase exposure of these substrates. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of ROMVIMZA on Other Drugs Table 5 describes drug interactions where concomitant use with ROMVIMZA affects another drug. Table 5: Effect of ROMVIMZA on Other Drugs P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with P-gp substrates while taking ROMVIMZA. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, take ROMVIMZA at least 4 hours prior to P-gp substrates [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) ] unless otherwise recommended in the substrate Prescribing Information. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) This recommendation is based upon a mechanistic understanding of vimseltinib pharmacokinetics and it being a P-gp inhibitor in vitro [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant use of ROMVIMZA with P-gp substrates may increase exposure of these substrates; however, this has not been studied clinically. Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) substrates Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with BCRP substrates while taking ROMVIMZA. Refer to the Prescribing Information of the BCRP substrate for dose modifications if concomitant use cannot be avoided. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) This recommendation is based upon a mechanistic understanding of vimseltinib pharmacokinetics and it being a BCRP inhibitor in vitro [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant use of ROMVIMZA with BCRP substrates may increase exposure of these substrates; however, this has not been studied clinically. Organic Cation Transporter 2 (OCT2) substrates Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with OCT2 substrates while taking ROMVIMZA. Refer to the Prescribing Information of the OCT2 substrate for dose modifications if concomitant use cannot be avoided. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) This recommendation is based upon a mechanistic understanding of vimseltinib pharmacokinetics and it being an OCT2 inhibitor in vitro [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant use of ROMVIMZA with OCT2 substrates may increase exposure of these substrates; however, this has not been studied clinically.
