Drug: voclosporin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce LUPKYNIS daily dosage to 15.8 mg in the morning and 7.9 mg in the evening. ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers: Avoid co-administration. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) Certain P-gp substrates: Reduce dosage of certain P-gp substrates with a narrow therapeutic window when co-administered with LUPKYNIS. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on LUPKYNIS Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Co-administration with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increases voclosporin exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of LUPKYNIS adverse reactions. Co-administration of LUPKYNIS with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin) is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Reduce LUPKYNIS dosage when co-administered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., verapamil, fluconazole, diltiazem) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ] . Avoid food or drink containing grapefruit when taking LUPKYNIS. Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Co-administration with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers decreases voclosporin exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may decrease the efficacy of LUPKYNIS. Avoid co-administration of LUPKYNIS with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers. 7.2 Effect of LUPKYNIS on Other Drugs Certain P-gp Substrates Voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor. Co-administration of voclosporin increases exposure of P-gp substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these substrates. For certain P-gp substrates with a narrow therapeutic window, reduce the dosage of the substrate as recommended in its prescribing information, if needed. OATP1B1 Substrates Voclosporin is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporters. In one clinical study the concomitant administration of a single 40 mg dose of simvastatin with 23.7 mg BID voclosporin increased C max and AUC of the active metabolite simvastatin acid (an OATP1B1 substrate) by 3.1-fold and 1.8-fold, respectively [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monitor for adverse reactions such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when OATP1B1/OATP1B3 substrates (e.g., simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, fluvastatin) are used concomitantly with LUPKYNIS and reduce the dosage of these substrates as recommended in their prescribing information. For example, when taking LUPKYNIS with simvastatin, limit the simvastatin dosage to 20 mg daily, or 40 mg daily for patients who have previously tolerated simvastatin 80 mg daily for at least one year without evidence of muscle toxicity.
