Drug: vonoprazan_fumarate_and_amoxicillin

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Collated drug interaction information for the individual components in VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK is summarized below. Drug interaction studies with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK or VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK have not been conducted. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse reactions or loss of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Clarithromycin (a component of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK) is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with a drug(s) primarily metabolized by CYP3A may cause elevations in CYP3A substrate drug's concentrations that could increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of the concomitant drug. Table 4: Effects of Other Drugs on VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Effect Vonoprazan and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates. Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease exposure of vonoprazan and clarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the effectiveness of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Probenecid Clinical Effect Amoxicillin undergoes tubular secretion. Probenecid may increase amoxicillin exposure by blocking its renal tubular secretion, which may increase the risk of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Closely monitor for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions associated with amoxicillin when used with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Allopurinol Clinical Effect Increase in the incidence of rashes is reported in patients receiving both allopurinol and amoxicillin together compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of amoxicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. Prevention or Management Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Omeprazole Clinical Effect Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with omeprazole. Itraconazole Clinical Effect Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly. VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK's use with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may lead to increases in clarithromycin exposure, which may increase the risk of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Patients taking itraconazole with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions associated with itraconazole and clarithromycin. Antivirals Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. Use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with antivirals that are CYP3A substrates, inducers, or CYP3A inhibitors may potentially lead to bi-directional drug interactions leading to alterations in exposure of clarithromycin and/or CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions or loss of effectiveness [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Saquinavir (CYP3A substrate and inhibitor) Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. See saquinavir prescribing information for instructions when saquinavir (with or without ritonavir) is co-administered with clarithromycin. Ritonavir (CYP3A inhibitor) Use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with ritonavir is not recommended in patients with decreased renal function. Etravirine (CYP3A inducer) Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Table 5: Effects of Other Drugs on VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Effect Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate. Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease vonoprazan exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the effectiveness of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Probenecid Clinical Effect Amoxicillin undergoes tubular secretion. Probenecid may increase amoxicillin exposure by blocking its renal tubular secretion, which may increase the risk of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Closely monitor for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions associated with amoxicillin when used with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Allopurinol Clinical Effect Increase in the incidence of rashes is reported in patients receiving both allopurinol and amoxicillin together compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of amoxicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. Prevention or Management Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Table 6: Effects of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK on Other Drugs Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Antiretrovirals Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] , which may alter the absorption of antiretroviral drugs leading to changes in their safety and/or effectiveness. Prevention or Management Rilpivirine-containing Products Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated . Atazanavir Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Nelfinavir Other Antiretroviral Drugs See the prescribing information of other antiretroviral drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption prior to concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Other Drugs (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] , which may decrease the absorption of drugs reducing their effectiveness. Prevention or Management See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Certain CYP3A Substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Clarithromycin and vonoprazan may increase exposure of CYP3A4 substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Prevention or Management Immunosuppressants: Tacrolimus, cyclosporine Frequent monitoring for concentrations and/or adverse reactions related to the substrate drugs when used with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Dosage reduction of substrate drugs may be needed. See prescribing information for the relevant substrate drugs. CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol) Clinical Effect Vonoprazan is a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Vonoprazan may reduce plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and may cause reduction in platelet inhibition. Vonoprazan may increase exposure of CYP2C19 substrate drugs (e.g., citalopram, cilostazol). Prevention or Management Clopidogrel Carefully monitor the efficacy of clopidogrel and consider alternative anti-platelet therapy. Citalopram and Cilostazol Carefully monitor patients for adverse reactions associated with citalopram and cilostazol. See the prescribing information for dosage adjustments. Oral Anticoagulants Clinical Effect Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time (increased INR) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants. Prevention or Management Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently. Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation. Chromogranin A (CgA) Test for Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ], which increases chromogranin A (CgA) levels and may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Prevention or Management Assess CgA levels at least 4 weeks after VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK treatment and repeat the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), use the same commercial laboratory for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Effect Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Prevention or Management Test should be performed at least 4 weeks after stopping VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK to allow gastrin levels to return to normal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Glucose Tests Clinical Effect Amoxicillin is primarily excreted in the urine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . High urine concentrations of ampicillin or amoxicillin may cause false-positive results when using glucose tests based on the Benedict's copper reduction reaction that determines the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine. Prevention or Management Use a test based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions when testing for glucose in the urine of patients treated with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Itraconazole Clinical Effect Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly. VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK's use with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may lead to increases in clarithromycin exposure, which may increase the risk of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Patients taking itraconazole with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions associated with itraconazole and clarithromycin. Antiarrhythmics Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of antiarrhythmic drugs that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates including cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., torsades de pointes ). There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with disopyramide and quinidine. There have been postmarketing reports of hypoglycemia with the concomitant administration of clarithromycin and disopyramide. Prevention or Management Disopyramide Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor patients for QTc prolongation and changes in blood glucose levels. Amiodarone Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor patients for QTc prolongation. Dofetilide Procainamide Sotalol Quinidine Colchicine Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A and the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Colchicine is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Clarithromycin increases exposure of colchicine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to colchicine. Prevention or Management Concomitant use of colchicine with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. If co-administration of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and colchicine is necessary in patients with normal renal or hepatic function, carefully monitor patients for clinical symptoms of colchicine toxicity and refer to the colchicine prescribing information for recommendations on dosage reduction. Antipsychotics Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of antipsychotic drugs that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates including the risk of somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, altered state of consciousness, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes ). Prevention or Management Pimozide Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Lurasidone Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Quetiapine Refer to quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on dosage reduction if co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Tolterodine (patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity) Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The primary route of metabolism for tolterodine is via CYP2D6. Clarithromycin may increase tolterodine exposure and the risk of adverse reactions related to tolterodine in patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity because tolterodine is metabolized via CYP3A in this subset of population. Prevention or Management Tolterodine 1 mg twice daily is recommended in patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity (poor metabolizers) when co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Antivirals Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. Use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with antivirals that are CYP3A substrates, inducers, or CYP3A inhibitors may potentially lead to bi-directional drug interactions leading to alterations in exposure of clarithromycin and/or CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions or loss of effectiveness [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Saquinavir (CYP3A substrate and inhibitor) Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. See saquinavir prescribing information for instructions when saquinavir (with or without ritonavir) is co-administered with clarithromycin. Maraviroc (CYP3A substrate) Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. See the prescribing information of maraviroc for dosage recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Zidovudine Administration of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and zidovudine should be separated by at least two hours. Benzodiazepines Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of benzodiazepines that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention or Management Midazolam Closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged central nervous system effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) and refer to the CYP3A substrate prescribing information for dosage adjustments when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Alprazolam Triazolam Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of calcium channel blockers that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates including hypotension, acute kidney injury, bradyarrhythmias, lactic acidosis, or peripheral edema. Prevention or Management Verapamil Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. Amlodipine Diltiazem Nifedipine Ergot Alkaloids Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of ergot alkaloids that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system [see Contraindications (4.2) ] . Prevention or Management Ergotamine Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Dihydroergotamine Hypoglycemic Agents Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of hypoglycemic agents that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Prevention or Management Nateglinide Closely monitor glucose levels when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Insulin Lipid-lowering Agents Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of lipid-lowering drugs that are CYP3A substrates, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Prevention or Management Lomitapide Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Lovastatin Simvastatin Atorvastatin Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. In situations where the concomitant use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with atorvastatin or pravastatin cannot be avoided, atorvastatin dose should not exceed 20 mg daily and pravastatin dose should not exceed 40 mg daily. Pravastatin Fluvastatin Use of a statin that is not dependent on CYP3A metabolism (e.g., fluvastatin) can be considered. It is recommended to prescribe the lowest registered dose if concomitant use cannot be avoided. Phosphodiesterase Inhibitors Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of phosphodiesterase inhibitors that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Prevention or Management Sildenafil Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. If concomitant use is unavoidable, see the prescribing information of the respective phosphodiesterase inhibitors for dosage recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Tadalafil Vardenafil Other CYP3A Based Interactions Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Clarithromycin increases exposure of CYP3A substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease exposure of clarithromycin. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with alfentanil, methylprednisolone, cilostazol, bromocriptine, vinblastine, phenobarbital, and St. John's Wort. Prevention or Management Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates: Digoxin Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of P-gp substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates, including potentially fatal arrhythmias. Elevated digoxin serum concentrations in patients receiving clarithromycin and digoxin concomitantly have been reported in postmarketing surveillance. Some patients have shown clinical signs consistent with digoxin toxicity, including potentially fatal arrhythmias. Prevention or Management Digoxin Carefully monitor serum concentrations and refer to the digoxin prescribing information for dosage adjustments when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Isoforms Other than CYP3A Clinical Effect Clarithromycin may increase exposure of drugs that are metabolized by CYP450 isoforms other than CYP3A by inhibiting their metabolism. There have been post-marketing reports of interactions of clarithromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A. Prevention or Management Hexobarbital Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. Phenytoin Valproate Theophylline Clinical Effect Clarithromycin may increase exposure of theophylline (a xanthine derivative drug) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to theophylline. Prevention or Management Closely monitor serum theophylline concentrations in patients receiving high dosages of theophylline or with baseline concentrations in the upper therapeutic range when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Table 7: Effects of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK on Other Drugs Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Antiretrovirals Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] , which may alter the absorption of antiretroviral drugs leading to changes in their safety and/or effectiveness. Prevention or Management Rilpivirine-containing Products Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK is contraindicated . Atazanavir Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Nelfinavir Other Antiretroviral Drugs See the prescribing information of other antiretroviral drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption prior to concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Other Drugs (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] , which may decrease the absorption of drugs reducing their effectiveness. Prevention or Management See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Certain CYP3A Substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities Clinical Effect Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Vonoprazan may increase exposure of CYP3A4 substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Prevention or Management Immunosuppressants: Tacrolimus, cyclosporine Frequent monitoring for concentrations and/or adverse reactions related to the substrate drugs when used with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Dosage reduction of substrate drugs may be needed. See prescribing information for the relevant substrate drugs. Oral Anticoagulants Clinical Effect Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time (increased INR) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants. Prevention or Management Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently. Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation. CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol) Clinical Effect Vonoprazan is a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Vonoprazan may reduce plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and may cause reduction in platelet inhibition. Vonoprazan may increase exposure of CYP2C19 substrate drugs (e.g., citalopram, cilostazol). Prevention or Management Clopidogrel Carefully monitor the efficacy of clopidogrel and consider alternative anti-platelet therapy. Citalopram and Cilostazol Carefully monitor patients for adverse reactions associated with citalopram and cilostazol. See the prescribing information for dosage adjustments. CgA Test for Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ], which increases CgA levels and may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Prevention or Management Assess CgA levels at least 4 weeks after VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK treatment and repeat the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), use the same commercial laboratory for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Effect Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Prevention or Management Test should be performed at least 4 weeks after stopping VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK to allow gastrin levels to return to normal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Glucose Tests Clinical Effect Amoxicillin is primarily excreted in the urine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . High urine concentrations of ampicillin or amoxicillin may cause false-positive results when using glucose tests based on the Benedict's copper reduction reaction that determines the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine. Prevention or Management Use a test based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions when testing for glucose in the urine of patients treated with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Components of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK have the potential for clinically important drug interactions. See Full Prescribing Information for important drug interactions with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. ( 4 , 5.2 , 7 )
