Drug: vorasidenib

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP1A2 Inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors. ( 7.1 ) CYP1A2 Inducers : Avoid concomitant use of moderate CYP1A2 inducers and smoking tobacco. ( 7.1 ) Certain CYP3A Substrates : Avoid concomitant use with CYP3A substrates, where a minimal concentration change can reduce efficacy. ( 7.2 ) Hormonal Contraception : If concomitant use cannot be avoided, use with nonhormonal contraception methods. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on VORANIGO Table 5: Effect of Other Drugs on VORANIGO Strong and Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of VORANIGO with a strong or moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor may increase vorasidenib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of VORANIGO with strong and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors. If concomitant use of moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse reactions and modify the dosage for adverse reactions as recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Moderate CYP1A2 Inducers Clinical Impact Concomitant use of VORANIGO with moderate CYP1A2 inducers and smoking tobacco may decrease vorasidenib plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the anti-tumor activity of VORANIGO. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of VORANIGO with moderate CYP1A2 inducers and smoking tobacco. 7.2 Effect of VORANIGO on Other Drugs Table 6: Effect of VORANIGO on Other Drugs Certain CYP3A Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of VORANIGO with CYP3A substrates may decrease plasma concentrations of CYP3A substrates. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of VORANIGO with CYP3A substrates, where a minimal concentration change may lead to reduced therapeutic effect. Hormonal Contraception Clinical Impact Concomitant use of VORANIGO may decrease the concentrations of hormonal contraceptives, which may lead to contraception failure and/or an increase in breakthrough bleeding. Prevention or Management If concomitant use cannot be avoided, use with nonhormonal contraception methods.
