Drug: vortioxetine

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong inhibitors of CYP2D6: Reduce TRINTELLIX dose by half when coadministered ( 2.5 , 7.1 ). • Strong CYP Inducers: Consider dose increase of TRINTELLIX dose when coadministered for more than 14 days. The maximum recommended dose should not exceed 3 times the original dose ( 2.6 , 7.1 ). 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with TRINTELLIX Table 4: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with TRINTELLIX Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SSRIs and SNRIs including TRINTELLIX with MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Concomitant use of TRINTELLIX is contraindicated: • With an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders or within 21 days of stopping treatment with TRINTELLIX. • Within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. • In a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TRINTELLIX with other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when TRINTELLIX is used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of TRINTELLIX and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Examples Other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort Strong Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TRINTELLIX with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increases plasma concentrations of vortioxetine. Intervention Reduce TRINTELLIX dose by half when a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor is coadministered [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Examples bupropion, fluoxetine, paroxetine, quinidine Strong CYP Inducers Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TRINTELLIX with a strong CYP inducer decreases plasma concentrations of vortioxetine. Intervention Consider increasing the TRINTELLIX dose when a strong CYP inducer is coadministered. The maximum dose is not recommended to exceed three times the original dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. Examples rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelets agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of TRINTELLIX with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of TRINTELLIX and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Examples aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin, warfarin Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Clinical Impact TRINTELLIX is highly bound to plasma protein. The concomitant use of TRINTELLIX with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of TRINTELLIX or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma . Intervention Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of TRINTELLIX or other protein bound drugs as warranted [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Examples Warfarin 7.2 Effect of TRINTELLIX on Other Drugs Other CNS Active Agents No clinically relevant effect was observed on steady-state lithium exposure following coadministration with multiple daily doses of TRINTELLIX. Multiple doses of TRINTELLIX did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics (composite cognitive score) of diazepam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . A clinical study has shown that TRINTELLIX (single dose of 20 or 40 mg) did not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol (single dose of 0.6 g/kg) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Following coadministration of stable doses of warfarin (1 to 10 mg/day) with multiple daily doses of TRINTELLIX, no significant effects were observed in INR, prothrombin values or total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics for both R- and S-warfarin. Coadministration of aspirin 150 mg/day with multiple daily doses of TRINTELLIX had no significant inhibitory effect on platelet aggregation or pharmacokinetics of aspirin and salicylic acid [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients receiving other drugs that interfere with hemostasis should be carefully monitored when TRINTELLIX is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Highly Protein Bound Drugs In a clinical study with coadministration of TRINTELLIX (10 mg/day) and warfarin (1 mg/day to 10 mg/day), a highly protein bound drug, no significant change in INR was observed [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Interference with Urine Enzyme Immunoassays for Methadone False positive results in urine enzyme immunoassays for methadone have been reported in patients who have taken vortioxetine. An alternative analytical technique (e.g., chromatographic methods) should be considered to confirm positive methadone urine drug screen results.
