Drug: xanomeline_and_trospium_chloride

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs Eliminated by Active Tubular Secretion: Monitor for increased frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions related to COBENFY and to drugs eliminated by active tubular secretion. ( 7.1 ) • Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors: Monitor for increased frequency and/or severity of COBENFY-related adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) • Sensitive Substrates of CYP3A4 or P-glycoprotein: Monitor for increased frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions from these substrates. ( 7.1 ) • Antimuscarinic Drugs: Monitor for increased frequency or severity of anticholinergic adverse reactions. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with COBENFY Table 2 displays clinically significant drug interactions with COBENFY. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with COBENFY Strong Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Implication: CYP2D6 contributes significantly to the metabolism of xanomeline, a component of COBENFY. Concomitant use of COBENFY with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase plasma concentrations of xanomeline, which may increase the frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions from COBENFY [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Prevention or Management: Monitor patients for increased frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions related to COBENFY in patients taking COBENFY with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6. Drugs Eliminated by Active Tubular Secretion Clinical Implication: Concomitant use of COBENFY with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase plasma concentrations of trospium a component of COBENFY, and/or the concomitantly used drug due to competition for this elimination pathway, which may increase the frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions from COBENFY or the drug eliminated by active tubular secretion [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Prevention or Management: Monitor patients for increased frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions related to COBENFY and adverse reactions related to drugs eliminated by active tubular secretion in patients concomitantly receiving such drugs. Oral Drugs That Are Sensitive Substrates of CYP3A4 Clinical Implication: Xanomeline, a component of COBENFY, transiently inhibits CYP3A4 locally in the gut but not systemically. Concomitant use of COBENFY with oral drugs that are sensitive substrates of CYP3A4 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the oral drugs that are sensitive substrates of CYP3A4. This may increase the frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions from such substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Prevention or Management: Monitor patients for increased frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions related to oral drugs that are sensitive substrates of CYP3A4 in patients taking COBENFY with such substrates. Oral Drugs That Are Substrates of P-glycoprotein Clinical Implication: Xanomeline, a component of COBENFY, transiently inhibits P-glycoprotein locally in the gut but not systemically. Concomitant use of COBENFY with oral drugs that are substrates of P-glycoprotein may result in increased plasma concentrations of the oral drugs that are substrates of P-glycoprotein, which may increase the frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions from such substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Prevention or Management: Monitor patients for increased frequency and/or severity of adverse reactions related to oral drugs that are narrow therapeutic index substrates of P-glycoprotein in patients taking COBENFY with such substrates. 7.2 Other Antimuscarinic Drugs Concomitant use of COBENFY with other antimuscarinic drugs that produce anticholinergic adverse reactions (e.g., dry mouth, constipation) may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Monitor patients for increased frequency and/or severity of anticholinergic adverse reactions when COBENFY is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinic drugs. 7.3 Effects on Absorption of Drugs COBENFY may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility. Dosage adjustment of concomitant medications may be necessary based on clinical response and tolerability.
