Drug: zolpidem_tartrate

=== Drug Interactions ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS- depressant effects ( 5.1 , 7.1 ) Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed ( 7.1 ) Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St. John's wort): Combination use may decrease effect ( 7.2 ) Ketoconazole: Combination use may increase effect ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS-Active Drugs CNS Depressants Coadministration of Zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression. Concomitant use of Zolpidem with these drugs may increase drowsiness and psychomotor impairment, including impaired driving ability [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Zolpidem Tartrate was evaluated in healthy volunteers in single-dose interaction studies for several CNS drugs. Alcohol An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral Zolpidem was demonstrated [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )] Opioids The concomitant use of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets with opioids may increase the risk of respiratory depression. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets and opioids [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Imipramine, Chlorpromazine Imipramine in combination with Zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20% decrease in peak levels of imipramine, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness. Similarly, chlorpromazine in combination with Zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Sertraline Concomitant administration of Zolpidem and sertraline increases exposure to Zolpidem [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Fluoxetine After multiple doses of Zolpidem Tartrate and fluoxetine an increase in the Zolpidem half-life (17%) was observed. There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Haloperidol A study involving haloperidol and Zolpidem revealed no effect of haloperidol on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of Zolpidem. The lack of a drug interaction following single-dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Drugs that Affect Drug Metabolism via Cytochrome P450 Some compounds known to induce or inhibit CYP3A may affect exposure to Zolpidem. The effect of drugs that induce or inhibit other P450 enzymes on the exposure to Zolpidem is not known. CYP3A4 Inducers Rifampin Rifampin, a CYP3A4 inducer, significantly reduced the exposure to and the pharmacodynamic effects of Zolpidem. Use of Rifampin in combination with Zolpidem may decrease the efficacy of Zolpidem and is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. St. John's wort Use of St. John's wort, a CYP3A4 inducer, in combination with Zolpidem may decrease blood levels of Zolpidem and is not recommended. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the exposure to and pharmacodynamic effects of Zolpidem. Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of Zolpidem when a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and Zolpidem are given together [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].
